GOOD EVENING AND
WELCOME TO THE MAY 5TH 20 25
MEETING OF THE INNER CITY
COUNCIL IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE
RISE AND JOIN US FOR A MOMENT
OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY THE
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
, I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES
JOHN
, WILL THE
CLERK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNCIL THE COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH HERE COUNTERMARCH APSA
COUNCILOR WATSON HERE COUNCILOR
MALIK FOR COUNCIL MY DENHA HERE
COMES MARKAZI AT ONE ABSENT
MAYOR TAYLOR APSA CUSTOMER HERE
CUSTOMER AKMAN APSA COUNCILOR
BRIGGS HERE CUSTOMER CORNELL
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK CAN I PLEASE GET A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
APPROVED BY A COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IGHER ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR ANY
OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS APPROVED
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
DO WE HAVE ANYTHING THIS
EVENING?
TONIGHT MAYOR?
>> THANK YOU.
WE HAVE TWO INTRODUCTIONS THIS
EVENING.
THE FIRST INTRODUCTION IS THE
MONTHLY UPDATE FROM THE CHAIR
OF OUR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
CHAIR CARTER, YOU HAVE THE
FLOOR
CHAIR CARTER WILL BE
JOINING US OVER ZUM
.
GOOD EVENING.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
WE CAN.
WE ARE GOOD.
THANK ARE.
>> GOOD EVENING.
IT IS GOOD TO BE WITH YOU THIS
EVENING EVEN REMOTELY I WANT TO
FIRST ANNOUNCE THAT BIG PARK
HAS HAD ITS SECOND TRANSPARENCY
MEETING THAT THE ANN ARBOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS SET.
WE HAD SOME ISSUES YOU MAY
REMEMBER ABOUT COMPLETE
TRANSPARENCY BETWEEN THE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND
MATERIALS THAT WE HAD TO REVIEW
WHEN WE ARE RESPONDING TO
COMPLAINTS.
AND SO I THINK THOSE ISSUES
HAVE BEEN RESOLVED AND WE VERY
MUCH THANK CHIEF ANDERSON FOR
THAT MAINLY THIS EVENING.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO DO IS
INVITE ALL OF YOU MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO WHAT WILL BE THE
INITIAL FIRST ANNUAL JEWED
WALTIN SOCIAL JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM
.
NOW THIS IS A COLLABORATION
BETWEEN IG PAC AND THE ANN
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> IT IS GOING TO BE HELD ON
MAY THIRTY FIRST WILL BE OUT AT
WASHTENAW COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
WE ARE JUST VERY HAPPY TO SAY
THAT WE HAVE SECURED AS OUR
KEYNOTE SPEAKER DR CEDRIC
ALEXANDER.
DOCTOR ALEXANDER IS THE
MINNEAPOLIS COMMISSIONER
OF COMMUNITY SAFETY.
HE IS A NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
EXPERT ON ENFORCEMENT, MENTAL
HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SAFETY.
HE HAS SERVED AS AN EXPERT IN
NATIONAL MEDIA SUCH AS CNN AND
MSNBC AND WE ARE JUST VERY
PLEASED THAT HE HAS AGREED TO
BE OUR KEYNOTE SPEAKER AT THE
SYMPOSIUM.
IT WAS NAMED FOR JUD WALTON.
SOME OF YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT
SHE WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
COMMISSIONERS ON THE
INDEPENDENT OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION AND SHE WAS NOT BORN
HERE.
SHE WAS ACTUALLY BORN IN
ENGLAND AND CAME HERE BECAME A
GREAT PART OF OUR COMMUNITY AND
WAS VERY DEDICATED TO SOCIAL
JUSTICE.
AND SO WE HAVE DECIDED TO TO
NAME THIS SYMPOSIUM FOR HER.
SO AGAIN, WE WOULD LIKE TO
INVITE EVERYONE OUT.
THERE IS A REGISTRATION IF THE
FLIERS ARE AVAILABLE YOU CAN
CONTACT THE QPAC OFFICE.
WE'VE SENT FLIERS OUT TO
EVERYONE THAT WE HAVE AN EMAIL
ADDRESS FOR AND THAT'S MADE
THIRTY FIRST I'M SORRY MAY
TWENTY FIRST AT WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE SO IT CAN NO
NO QUESTIONS.
>> THAT IS MY REPORT FOR THIS
EVENING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
JOE CARTER NEXT YOU MAY RECALL
THAT MAYOR TAYLOR DEDICATED OUR
MOMENT OF SILENCE AT OUR LAST
MEETING TO SHIRLEY BAKLEY UPON
THE OCCASION OF HER PASSING.
WHILE I DID NOT HAVE THE
PRIVILEGE TO GET TO KNOW MISS
BACKWAY PERSONALLY, SHE WAS A
PILLAR OF OUR COMMUNITY AND A
LIFELONG ACTIVIST.
MANY OF YOU MAY RECOGNIZE HER
FROM A RECENT SHOWING OF A
LETTER TO THE WEST SIDE WHERE
HER WISDOM AND SHARP SENSE
OF HUMOR WERE ON DISPLAY.
JOINING US TONIGHT TO HONOR HER
MEMORY ARE THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE HOUSING
COMMISSION, JENNIFER HALL AND
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO INTRODUCE
CURTIS DAVIS WHO WILL BE
SPEAKING FOR THE GROUP.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU GUYS.
WE'RE HERE TODAY TO COMMEMORATE
THE LIFE OF SHIRLEY BAKLEY WHO
PASSED AWAY UNEXPECTEDLY ON
APRIL 15TH AT THE AGE OF 82.
SHIRLEY WAS THE HEART AND SOUL
OF OUR COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL WHO ARE HERE TODAY TO
HONOR SHIRLEY'S LIFE AND IMPACT
ON OUR COMMUNITY.
THE KELCY IS AN ADVISORY BOARD
TO THE CITY AND THE AND OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION DEDICATED TO
CELEBRATING THE CONTRIBUTIONS
OF BLACK RESIDENTS AND
REMEMBERING OUR HISTORY AND
CREATING A COMMUNITY SPACE AT
THE DUNBAR TOWER FOR ALL
RESIDENTS WHICH IS AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
UNDER THE CONSTRUCTION AT THE
CORNER OF FORT AND CATHERINE
SHIRLEY BECKLEY WAS A TRUE
LAWYER.
SHE WAS A BRAVE, INTELLIGENT
AND A MORAL COMPASS THAT
COMPELLED HER TO HAVE A
POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE
COMMUNITY.
SHIRLEY WAS A MENTOR FOR
COUNTLESS PEOPLE AND A TIRELESS
ADVOCATE FOR THE BLACK
COMMUNITY AND ANYONE WHOSE
RIGHTS WERE TRAMPLED ON.
SHIRLEY HAD A LONG CAREER AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING STARTING
WITH THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION THEN BIOCHEMISTS AND
THE MUSKEGON HOUSING COMMISSION
.
SHIRLEY PARTICIPATED ON MANY
PUBLIC BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
AND MOST RECENTLY IACP OSSY AND
THE CITY'S BICENTENNIAL
COMMISSION.
SHE WAS AN INSTRUMENTAL IN
CREATING A JONES SCHOOL
HISTORICAL MARKER AT COMMUNITY
HIGH SCHOOL WHICH WILL BE
OFFICIALLY DECLARED ON MAY 15TH
AT ONE 30 P.M SHIRLEY WAS AN
ARTIST, A MUSICIAN AND A
STORYTELLER AND WE ARE SO
FORTUNATE TO RECORD SHIRLEY'S
MEMORABLE INTERVIEWS AND THE
DOCUMENTARY A LETTER TO THE
WEST SIDE AND IF YOU HAVEN'T
SEEN IT I SUGGEST YOU DO
SHIRLEY FATHERS FAMILY MOVED TO
ANN ARBOR DURING THE GREAT
MIGRATION FROM THE SOUTH AND
HER MOTHER'S FAMILY MOVED FROM
CANADA HERE AND THEY OWNED A
HOME ON THE CITY'S WEST SIDE ON
ASHLI AND WEST KINGSLEE ON WEST
KINGSLEE EXCUSE ME SHE WAS ONE
OF SEVERAL BLACK KIDS WHO HAD
TO MOVE TO A NEW SCHOOL AS PART
OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT MOVEMENT
OF THE NINETEEN FIFTIES.
THE WORK WE ARE DOING ON THE
KELCY WAS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT
TO SHIRLEY AND WE WANT TO THANK
THE CITY FOR SUPPORTING OUR
WORK AND WE WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR GIVING US THE OPPORTUNITY
TO HONOR SHIRLEY BAKLEY.
THANK YOU.
AND AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED FOR
THOSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO LEARN
ABOUT MOSSBACK MORE ABOUT THEM
ESPECIALLY AS LIFE YOU CAN ALSO
CHECK OUT THE DISTRICT
LIBRARIES ARCHIVES.
I KNOW THAT THEY HAVE A NUMBER
OF INTERVIEWS AND FEATURES FROM
HER WORK IN ACTIVISM IN OUR
COMMUNITY OVER THE YEARS.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT ONE MUST HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND WE CAN ONLY HAVE ONCE
ONE PERSON SPEAKING AT A TIME
FOR THOSE JOINING US REMELT
LEAVE THE CITY CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU AND WHEN YOU HAVE
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED,
SPEAKERS ARE NOT AUTHORIZED TO
DELEGATE THEIR TIME TO AN
ALTERNATE SPEAKER.
COUNSEL RULES ALLOW FOR FORTY
FIVE MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVED TIME AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING WE WILL ALLOW
FOR AT LEAST FIFTEEN SPEAKERS
IN THE INITIAL FORTY FIVE
MINUTE TIME PERIOD IF THE
CONCLUSION OF FORTY FIVE
MINUTES SPEAKERS REMAIN ON THE
PUBLIC COMMENT LIST WILL REOPEN
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR THOSE
SPEAKERS AT THE END OF THE
MEETING.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER THIS EVENING
IS AMY COMLEY
.
DID YOU THE LETTER YOU CAN GIVE
TO THE CLERK?
YES
HELLO MY NAME IS AMY
CONNELLY.
I'VE WORKED WITH RHINEHART ANN
ARBOR FOR THE PAST FOURTEEN
YEARS SPECIALIZING IN RENTAL
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT.
I AM HERE TODAY BECAUSE THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AS WRITTEN
IS SIGNIFICANTLY OUT OF TOUCH
WITH THE REALITIES OF AN
ARBOR'S RENTAL MARKET.
ACCORDING TO THE FREQUENTLY
ASKED QUESTIONS SECTION OF THE
PROPOSAL WE EXPECT THAT MANY
RENTAL UNITS WILL BE ABLE TO
ACHIEVE THE REQUIREMENTS SET
FORTH IN THE PROPOSED PROGRAM
WITH LITTLE TO NO COST OR
EFFORT.
THIS STATEMENT CLEARLY
INDICATES A LACK OF EXPERIENCE
OR UNDERSTAND HOW THE RENTAL
MARKET OPERATES WHAT IT TAKES
TO MAINTAIN RENTAL PROPERTIES
AND WHAT TENANTS ACTUALLY VALUE
IN A RENTAL HOME.
FRANKLY, THIS MAKES ME QUESTION
THE TRUE INTENT OF THE PROPOSAL
.
THE SCORING SYSTEM HEAVILY
FAVORS ELECTRIFICATION, WHICH
APPEARS TO BE A WORKAROUND
AFTER THE CITY'S FAILED ATTEMPT
TO BAN GAS APPLIANCES.
THE PROPOSAL SUGGESTS THAT A
SHIFT TO GREEN ENERGY WILL
LOWER TENANTS COSTS YET OFFERS
NO MEANINGFUL DATA TO SUPPORT
THAT CLAIM.
TO ILLUSTRATE I MANAGED TO
SIMILAR PROPERTIES CONDOMINIUMS
A COMPARABLE SIZE LOCATED
WITHIN ONE MILE OF EACH OTHER
BUT WITHIN FIVE YEARS OF EACH
OTHER AND IN MIXED USE
BUILDINGS ACCORDING TO DTRS
BUDGET PLAN THE UNIT WITH GAS
AND ELECTRIC APPLIANCES COSTS
TENANTS APPROXIMATELY ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH.
THE UNIT WITH ALL ELECTRICAL
SYSTEMS COST ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY DOLLARS A MONTH.
THAT'S A THIRTY DOLLARS A MONTH
INCREASE OR THREE HUNDRED SIXTY
DOLLARS MORE ANNUALLY FOR A
TENANT USING ELECTRICITY ALONE
THAT IS NOT THEORETICAL.
IT'S A REAL WORLD DATA FROM THE
REAL TENANTS IN ANN ARBOR.
ADDITIONALLY, COMPARING THE
ORDINANCE TO BOULDER SMART REGS
PROGRAM IS MISLEADING BOULDER
ENJOYS OVER 300 DAYS OF SUN PER
YEAR MAKING SOLAR ENERGY FAR
MORE VIABLE.
BOULDER GENERATES OVER THREE
TIMES THE SOLAR POWER IN OUR
DOES.
COMPARING OUR TWO CLIMATES IS
NOT APPLES TO APPLES, IT'S
APPLES TO WATERMELONS.
BOULDER'S PROGRAM ALSO HAS
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES.
MANY PROPERTY OWNERS SOLD THEIR
HOMES RATHER THAN SHOULDER
COMPLIANCE COSTS.
THIS LED TO A REDUCTION IN
RENTAL INVENTORY WHICH IN TURN
INCREASED RENTS.
IF THIS ORDINANCE PASSES WE MAY
SEE THE SAME TREND HERE
LANDLORDS SELLING SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES REPLACED WITH LARGE
MULTIUNIT BUILDINGS AND UNIQUE
CHARACTER AND THE UNIQUE
CHARACTER ARE VIRTUALLY ERASED
UNDER THE GUISE
OF ENVIRONMENTALISM.
WE ARE AT AN ECONOMICALLY
PRECARIOUS TIME WITH CONCERNS
OF A LOOMING RECESSION
BURDENING LANDLORDS WOULD ONLY
REDUCE AND RENTAL, REDUCE THE
RENTAL SUPPLY, RAISE RENTS AND
HARM THE VERY PEOPLE THIS
ORDINANCE CLAIMS TO HELP
TENANTS IN ARBER HAS AN
AFFORDABLE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CRISIS.
SHOULDN'T OUR FOCUS BE ON
INCREASING ACCESSIBILITY AND
HOUSING STOCK NOT PUSHING
OWNERS OUT OF THE MARKET?
MANY OF MY PROPERTY OWNERS HAVE
REACHED OUT TO ME THROUGH CALLS
,EMAILS AND LETTERS.
THEIR RESPONSES HAVE BEEN
OVERWHELMINGLY NEGATIVE.
THEY DESCRIBE THE CITY AS OUT
OF TOUCH QUESTION THE INTENT
BEHIND THE PROPOSAL AND
EXPRESSED DISBELIEF,
FRUSTRATION AND CONTEMPT.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP.
>> THANK YOU
NEXT NEXT UP IS
MORGAN DETTMAN
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MORGAN BAY AND I'M
THE DIRECTOR FOR A PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT COMPANY THAT WORKS
CLOSELY WITH RENTAL PROPERTY
OWNERS ACROSS ANN ARBOR.
I WANT TO START BY SAYING THAT
I UNDERSTAND AND RESPECT THE
CITY'S INTENT BEHIND THE GREEN
RENTAL HOUSING ORDINANCE.
I THINK EVERYBODY WANTS SAFER,
HEALTHIER AND MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT HOUSING BUT I FEEL
IT'S IMPORTANT TO VOICE THE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES THAT
THIS ORDINANCE WILL CREATE FOR
LANDLORDS AND ULTIMATELY THE
AVAILABILITY OF RENTAL HOUSING
IN OUR CITY.
RENTAL PROVIDERS ARE ALREADY
OPERATING AT VERY SMALL MARGINS
IF ANY MANY ARE ACTUALLY
OPERATING AT LOSS DUE TO THE
RISING COST OF PROPERTY TAXES,
INSURANCE, BUILDING MATERIALS
WHICH INCREASES THE COST
OF PREVENTATIVE AND REQUIRED
MAINTENANCE ON RENTAL HOMES
THEY ARE REQUIRED TO GO THROUGH
DETAILED AND DEMANDING CITY
INSPECTION PROCESS.
THAT ALONE TAKES COORDINATION
FINANCIAL INVESTMENT AND
CONSTANT ATTENTION TO STAYING
COMPLIANT.
WHAT THIS NEW ORDINANCE DOES IS
LAYER ON ANOTHER FULL
COMPLIANCE SYSTEM EITHER
THROUGH A CERTIFIED ENERGY
AUDIT OR BY NAVIGATING A THREE
HUNDRED POINT CHECKLIST.
AND WHILE THAT MIGHT SOUND
MANAGEABLE ON PAPER IN PRACTICE
IT'S INCREDIBLY COMPLEX AND
COSTLY ESPECIALLY FOR OWNERS
OF OLDER HOUSING STOCK OR FOR
SMALL LANDLORDS MANAGING A FEW
UNITS.
THE RISK IS NOT JUST ABOUT THE
COST BUT ABOUT THE VIABILITY
MANY LANDLORDS ARE NOW WEIGHING
WHETHER TO SELL INSTEAD OF TAKE
ON ANOTHER TAKING ON ANOTHER
REGULATORY HURDLE.
WHEN THAT HAPPENS WE LOSE
RENTAL HOUSING UNITS ARE PULLED
FROM THE MARKET SOLD TO OWNER
OCCUPANTS AND CONVERTED TO USES
THAT NO LONGER SERVE RENTERS
THAT SHRINKS OUR INVENTORY,
DRIVES UP RENTS AND PUTS EVEN
MORE PRESSURE ON THE RESIDENTS
NEEDING HOUSING THAT WE'RE ALL
SUPPOSEDLY TRYING TO SUPPORT.
MY ASK IS NOT TO NECESSARILY
ELIMINATE THE ORDINANCE BECAUSE
I KNOW THE PROBABILITY OF THAT
IS PROBABLY LOW BUT TO IMPROVE
INSTEAD GIVING LANDLORDS MORE
TOOLS TO COMPLY LIKE ACCESS TO
INCENTIVES VERSUS THREATENING
THEM WITH FINES LONGER
TIMELINES TO GET THE HOMES TO
MEET THE REQUIREMENTS AND MORE
ACCESSIBLE WAIVER OPTIONS WE
HAVE TO PRIORITIZE
COLLABORATION BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
THE MESSAGE THAT MANY LANDLORDS
ARE HEARING ISN'T LET'S MAKE
OUR RENTALS GREENER.
IT'S MAYBE IT'S TIME TO SELL
OUR PROPERTIES.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THANK YOU
NEXT.
NEXT UP IS JUDY MACDONALD.
>> HI, MY NAME IS JUDY
MACDONALD.
I'M A PROPERTY MANAGER FROM THE
CHARLES RINEHART COMPANY AS A
PROPERTY MANAGER FOR THIRTY TWO
YEARS I'VE MANAGED MANY OFF
CAMPUS HOUSING UNITS, LARGE
APARTMENT COMPLEXES AND SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES AND CONDOS LOCATED
WITHIN THE CITY OF THE ANN
ARBOR.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO JUST SHARE
SOME ACTUAL COMMENTS FEEDBACK
FROM SOME OF OUR OWNERS AS WELL
AS HIGHLIGHT SOME ADDITIONAL
KEY POINTS.
FIRST I'M GOING TO READ AN
ACTUAL LETTER FROM ONE OF THE
OWNERS.
>> SHE SAYS JUST READ OFF 15
PAGES OF THE GREEN RULES.
THE REQUESTS ARE TRULY
EXTRAORDINARY AND IMPOSSIBLE.
THE OWNERS HAVE FULL
RESPONSIBILITY FOR EVERYTHING
AND THE TENANTS HAVE NO
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANYTHING.
I'M SURPRISED THEY EVEN HAVE TO
PAY RENT.
JUST ADD TO THE GREEN RULES
REQUIRED PROVISIONS FOR
HANDFEEDING OF ORGANIC FOOD AND
PROVIDING ORGANIC COTTON
CLOTHING TO THE TENANT AND WE
HAVE JUST GIVEN AWAY OUR HOMES
TO A HELPLESS CHILD THAT CANNOT
BE EVICTED.
THIS IS SCARY.
I'M SURE NO ONE ON THE HOUSING
BOARD LIVES IN A HOUSE AS
PERFECT AS THE ONE DESCRIBED IN
THE GREEN RULES.
WHY ARE THEY IMPOSING ON OTHERS
WHAT THEY WILL NOT IMPOSE ON
THEMSELVES AND ALL THE
HOMEOWNERS OF ANN ARBOR WHERE
ARE MY PROTECTIONS FROM RENTERS
THAT DON'T TAKE CARE OF THE NEW
APPLIANCES FLOORING, FRESHLY
PAINTED WALLS, FURNACES AND
PLUMBING SYSTEMS THAT ARE IN
PLACE?
I HAVE YET TO HAVE A TENANT
THAT WILL EVEN TAKE
RESPONSIBLES TO SLIDE IN A NEW
FURNACE FILTER EVEN THOUGH IT
IS STATED THERE SUPPOSED TO DO
SO IN THEIR CONTRACT THE
HIGHEST ENERGY STAR APPLIANCES
ARE OUT OF BUDGET RANGE FOR
PROPERTY OWNER HAS OUR
INDUCTION COOKTOP SMART HOME
DEVICES PLUS ONE SMART SMART
ONE SMART DEVICES AND WI FI ARE
INSTALLED.
IT BECOMES THE OWNER'S
RESPONSIBILITY TO REPAIR AND
REPLACE THESE ITEMS THAT ARE
NOT RELIABLE FOR LONG LASTING.
WHAT OWNER OR MANAGER HAS TIME
TO CALL OUR SERVICE PROVIDER
EVERY TIME THE WI-FI IS DOWN?
CAN A TENANT REFUSE TO PAY RENT
IF THE WI-FI DOESN'T WORK?
AND THEN JUST SOME OTHER KEY
POINTS THAT JUST SORT
OF SUMMARIZED FROM VARIOUS
OWNERS IS THIS BEING APPLIED
ONLY TO RENTAL UNITS?
IS THERE A DISTINCTION BETWEEN
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
MULTIPLE UNIT COMPLEXES?
DOES THE COUNCIL THINK THAT
MOST RENTERS ARE STUDENTS AND
THE COSTS ARE IMMATERIAL TO
STUDENTS?
THESE REQUIREMENTS ARE NOT
PRACTICAL FOR A SINGLE FAMILY
FAMILY HOME AND WILL RESULT IN
SIGNIFICANT INCREASES IN RENTAL
FEES TO TENANTS RETIRED OWNERS
WHO RELY ON THEIR INCOME FROM
THEIR PROPERTIES FEEL THE
ORDINANCE ORDINANCE WOULD
CREATE A HUGE FINANCIAL BURDEN
AND THEY WILL CONSIDER SELLING.
WE DID RECEIVE QUITE A BIT
OF FEEDBACK ON THAT COST
OF LIVING HAS TO BE PARAMOUNT
TO OUR THINKING CERTAINLY THERE
ARE OTHER AREAS WHERE THE CITY
CAN TRAIN ITS SIGHTS ON THAT
TRAIN ITS SIGHTS ON THEY WILL
HAVE LESS ECONOMIC IMPACT THAN
A MEASURE SUCH AS THIS GREEN
ORDINANCE.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE LISA LESSA SPETZ
.
>> HI, I'M LISA SPETZ.
I'M AWARD ONE RESIDENT AND A
PROGRAM MANAGER FOR THE
WASHTENAW ANN ARBOR TWENTY
THIRTY DISTRICT.
I'M HERE TO EXPRESS MY PERSONAL
SUPPORT AND ALSO THE SUPPORT
OF THE TWENTY THIRTY DISTRICT
FOR THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE.
I'M INCREDIBLY FORTUNATE AND
GRATEFUL TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR
BECAUSE THE CITY IS DOING SO
MUCH THAT I SUPPORT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT WITH SO MUCH GOING
WRONG IN THE WORLD I TRY TO
STAY FOCUSED ON SOLUTIONS TO
THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
ALL THE SOLUTIONS AS FAST AS WE
CAN.
IT DRIVES ME CRAZY THAT
WELL-MEANING PEOPLE THINK IT'S
WORTH ARGUING ABOUT HOW TO DO
THIS PERFECTLY.
WE DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THAT.
I BELIEVE WE NEED TO TAKE EVERY
STEP SCALE UP EVERY EFFORT.
THIS IS ONE REASON I THINK THAT
THE ORDINANCE IS GREAT BECAUSE
IT WILL HAVE A BIG IMPACT ON
THE CITY WITH RENTALS MAKING UP
FIFTY FIVE PERCENT OF AN URBAN
HOUSING STACK.
THIS IS A TREMENDOUS
OPPORTUNITY FOR IMPROVEMENT.
THE ORDINANCE IS DESIGNED TO
MAKE COMPLIANCE EASY AND ALLOWS
LANDLORDS FLEXIBILITY IN THEIR
APPROACH.
RENTAL UNITS IN GOOD CONDITION
WITH VERY BASIC ENERGY SAVINGS
MEASURES LIKE INSULATION ARE
LIKELY TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE ORDINANCE ALREADY ONLY
NEEDING A HOME ENERGY RATING
SYSTEM ASSESSMENT TO CONFIRM
COMPLIANCE.
THERE ARE MANY RESOURCES
AVAILABLE TO LANDLORDS WHO DO
NEED TO UPGRADE THEIR UNITS AND
THE TWENTY THIRTY DISTRICT IS
HERE TO HELP AS WELL.
WE HAVE FREE TRAINING FOR
MAINTENANCE STAFF TO MAKE LOW
COST IMPROVEMENTS WHEN THE
APARTMENTS TURNOVER LIKE
WEATHERIZATION AND REPLACING
INEFFICIENT FIXTURES, THE
AUDIENCE IS HOLISTIC.
IN ADDITION TO THE ENERGY
SAVING AND ELECTRIFICATION
ACTIONS LISTED ON THE CHECKLIST
MANY OF WHICH QUALIFY AS NO
BRAINERS, I WAS THRILLED TO SEE
FIFTY ONE ACTIONS IN THE
SUSTAINABILITY, HEALTH AND
EDUCATION CATEGORY THINGS NEAR
AND DEAR TO MY HEART TOOL
LIBRARIES, POLLINATOR AWARE
YARD CARE, BIKE PARKING, LOCAL
FOOD PERMEABLE PAVING COMMUNITY
GARDENS AND BUS PASSES FOR THE
RENTAL UNITS THAT ARE NOT IN
GOOD SHAPE.
THE AUDIENCE WILL REQUIRE THAT
THEY BE MADE HEALTHIER AND MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH MORE
AFFORDABLE UTILITY BILLS AND
LOWER GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
.
LANDLORDS NEED INCENTIVES TO
IMPROVE THEIR BUILDINGS,
ESPECIALLY WHEN RENTERS PAY
THEIR UTILITY BILLS DIRECTLY.
THIS ORDINANCE PROVIDES THE
INCENTIVE AND IS A CRITICAL
STEP TOWARDS MEETING OUR EIGHT
TO ZERO PLAN GOALS.
THANK THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE ANGELA RASSMUSSEN
.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M ANGIE RASMUSSON.
I'M A LIFELONG ANN ARBOR
RESIDENT AND I WORKED AS A
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGER
FOR CHARLES REINHART FOR OVER
15 YEARS.
I CURRENTLY MANAGE SEVENTY FIVE
PROPERTIES THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTY.
FORTY THREE OF WHICH ARE
LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS
OF ANAMBRA.
MOST OF THOSE ARE CONSISTING
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
CONDOS AND THEY'RE OWNED BY
INDIVIDUAL TAXPAYERS.
AND I'M HERE ON THE LANDLORD'S
BEHALF THAT I REPRESENT.
I FULLY SUPPORT ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUES.
I BELIEVE IN CLIMATE CHANGE,
RECYCLING AND BUILDING A
GREENER COMMUNITY.
BUT I ALSO BELIEVE POLICIES
MUST BE BALANCED AND REALISTIC
.
IT IS CLEAR THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION WANTS TO GROW
THE CITY THE APPROVAL OF OVER
15 LARGE MULTIUNIT BUILDINGS
PROVES THAT WHILE SUPPORTING
LARGE DEVELOPERS OF THESE
ORDINANCE BOTH PASSED AND
PROPOSED IGNORE THE BACKBONE
OF THE ENTIRE RENTAL MARKET IN
VENGEFULLY OWNED HOMES AND
CONDOS.
HERE'S SOMETHING THAT EVERYBODY
KNOWS RENTAL PROPERTY OWNERS
PAY 30 PERCENT HIGHER TAXES
THAN OWNER OCCUPIERS.
THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE ALREADY
CONTRIBUTING MORE YET FACE
INCREASED INCREASING REGULATION
MANY HAVE RENTED TO FAMILIES
AND STUDENTS FOR DECADES NOW
THEY ARE FORCED TO RAISE RENTS
OR SELL AND THAT HURTS TENANTS
TO LESS INVENTORY MEANS HIGHER
RENTS FOR EVERYONE AS FOR
AFFORDABILITY, MOST OF OUR
PROPERTY OWNERS I WORK WITH
RAISE THE RENT VERY LITTLE
MODESTLY AT TWO OR THREE
PERCENT AT MAX WHICH IS WAY
BELOW THE NATIONAL AVERAGE TO
KEEP THESE PROPERTIES
ACCESSIBLE TO THE TENANTS THAT
THEY HAVE.
BUT THE ADDITIONAL COST BURDEN
FROM THIS ORDINANCE WILL ALSO
ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO BE PASSED ON
TO THE TENANTS AS MANY OF OUR
OWNERS TO NOT MAKE A PROFIT OR
VERY LITTLE.
WE'VE SPOKEN TO LOCAL LICENSED
CONTRACTORS LOCALLY ABOUT THE
ELECTRIC ELECTRICITY CONVERSION
WILL BE NEEDED IF YOU SWITCH
FROM A GAS TO AN ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE IT'LL BE A MINIMUM
COST OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
EXTRA PER APPLIANCE TO DO THAT
WHEN YOU SWITCH FROM A GUEST OR
AN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AND MORE
SIGNIFICANTLY SIGNIFICANTLY
WHEN YOU SWITCH A FURNACE OR A
HOT WATER HEATER CONVERSION YOU
HAVE TO UPDATE THE ELECTRICAL
PANELS AS WELL WHICH CAN BE
UPWARDS FROM A THOUSAND TO FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS COST PER
LARGER APPLIANCE.
THESE COSTS AREN'T JUST LINE
ITEMS.
THEY'RE FINANCIAL BURDENS THAT
MANY SMALL SCALE LANDLORDS
SIMPLY CANNOT ABSORB IN REALITY
THEY FUNCTION LIKE A TARIFF ON
PROPERTY OWNERS.
THE CITY RENTAL POLICIES HAVE
BECOME INCREASINGLY ONE SIDED.
THE TENANTS HANDBOOK READS MORE
LIKE TENANTS RIGHTS AND
LANDLORD DUTIES.
IT IS OFTEN OFFERS FEW TOOLS TO
LANDLORDS TRYING TO MAINTAIN
QUALITY HOUSING UNDER GROWING
COSTS AND CONSTRAINTS.
YES, THERE ARE A FEW BAD
LANDLORDS THAT EXIST BUT THE
VAST MAJORITY INCLUDING THOSE I
WORK WITH MAINTAIN THEIR
PROPERTIES WELL RESPECTED
TENANTS AND CARE ABOUT THIS
COMMUNITY EVEN IF THEY DON'T
LIVE HERE.
>> THANK YOU JORDAN HOUSE
CITY
COUNCIL.
YOU'VE HEARD FROM ME BEFORE.
I'M GENERALLY NOT SOMEBODY WHO
COMES HERE AND SAYS BUT THE
LANDLORD BUT I'M GOING TO THROW
THAT AT YOU TONIGHT SO I HOPE
YOU CAN HEAR ME.
I SUPPORT THE INTENTIONS BEHIND
THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE.
ALL OF OUR RENTERS DESERVE
CLEANER, SAFER AND MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT HOUSING.
I'M NOT HERE TO ADMONISH YOU TO
TALK BROADLY ABOUT TENANTS THAT
I'M LUCKY TO HAVE OR TO TELL
YOU THAT LANDLORDS DON'T MAKE
MONEY.
THAT WOULD BE.
I'M HERE TO ASK YOU TO POSTPONE
THE VOTE AND TO ADOPT A MORE
COLLABORATIVE INFORMED
APPROACH.
I THINK WE CAN DO BETTER.
WE SHOULD DELAY THIS DECISION
UNTIL WE RECEIVE THE FIRST
SCORES FROM THE FOUR PILOT
PROPERTIES AND BETTER EVALUATE
OTHER PROPERTIES USING THE
CHECKLIST.
THIS INFORMATION IS ESSENTIAL
TO UNDERSTANDING WHAT
COMPLIANCE WILL ACTUALLY
REQUIRE, ESPECIALLY FOR OLDER
HOUSING.
THIS MAKES UP MOST OF OUR
RENTAL STOCK EVEN AFTER MEETING
WITH OSSI IN RENTAL HOUSING.
I'M NOT CONFIDENT THAT WE CAN
ACHIEVE HIGH SCORES NEEDED FOR
OLDER PROPERTIES WITHOUT
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT.
I'M TRYING TRILLION AS WRITTEN,
THE ORDINANCE PLACES AN UNDUE
BURDEN ON SMALLER LANDLORDS
FAVORING THE BROADER CAPITALIST
HOUSING SYSTEM ONE IN WHICH
LARGE CORPORATIONS ALREADY OWN
NEWER AND MORE EFFICIENT UNITS
AND HAVE THE RESOURCES AND
SPACE TO COMPLY MORE EASILY.
IT INTRODUCES COMPLEX
RECORDKEEPING, EDUCATIONAL
REQUIREMENTS
THAT WILL DEMAND
SIGNIFICANT TIME FROM US.
THE SMALLER LANDLORDS WHO ARE
MANAGING OLDER HOMES.
MANY OF US SHARE YOUR DESIRE TO
REACH THE GOALS OF A ZERO.
BUT TO SUCCEED WE NEED A MORE
PRACTICAL AND IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN.
IF COMPLIANCE ISN'T FEASIBLE
FOR MANY PROPERTIES, WE'RE
GOING TO RISK LOSING SOME
OF THOSE AFFORDABLE UNITS AND
THAT'S JUST THE FACTS OF THE
MONEY THAT IS INVOLVED HERE.
SO WE'RE IN THE MIDST OF A
HOUSING CRISIS.
YOU AND I BOTH KNOW THAT
PRESERVING THESE AFFORDABLE
RENTALS IS ESSENTIAL AND I
THINK THIS ALSO SPEAKS TO LIKE
OUR STATED GOALS OF RACIAL
EQUITY.
RIGHT.
WE SEE THAT WE WANT TO BE A
DIVERSE COMMUNITY THAT IS
INCLUSIVE.
A LOT OF US LANDLORDS WHO HAVE
SMALLER PROPERTIES THAT ARE
CHEAPER ARE THE ONES WHO HOUSE
THOSE FOLKS AND THIS IS A
DIRECT AFFRONT TOWARD THAT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE RENTERS
COMMISSION'S RECOMMENDATION TO
FOCUS ON THE PROPERTIES.
I THINK THAT THIS IS CRUCIAL
AND WE SHOULD GO FURTHER.
WE SHOULD USE THESE MORTGAGE
FUNDS TO SUPPORT OUR TENANTS
PAY UTILITIES WHICH SHOULD
SUPPORT GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
INSPECTORS TO HELP LANDLORDS
UNDERSTAND WHERE THEY STAND AND
WHAT UPGRADES WILL BE FEASIBLE.
THIS WILL ALSO HELP US AS A
CITY TO SEE WHAT THE ACTUAL
COSTS ARE BEFORE PASSING THIS
LEGISLATION AND THE CITY SHOULD
CREATE TRANSPARENT TOOLS SO
THAT LANDLORDS CAN PLAN UPDATES
WISELY.
I'LL JUST SHARE A STORY WE
LOOKED INTO REPLACING A WATER
HEATER RECENTLY WITH AN
ELECTRONIC OPTION.
I SPENT THE WHOLE DAY TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE COST WOULD
BE.
IT WAS THREE TIMES AS MUCH.
WE LITERALLY COULDN'T DO IT.
AND SO I THINK THAT WHAT WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT THESE HOUSES
WE'RE NOT ALSO INCLUDING SOME
OF THE BIGGER, MORE UNIQUE
OLDER STYLE HOUSES JUST CAN'T
EASILY BE RETROFITTED.
AND SO WE NEED TO DO MORE
LOOKING AT THOSE WE'RE
SCHEDULED FOR HER ASSESSMENT OR
WE'LL BE SOON.
BUT I THINK THAT WE NEED TO
LOOK AT A BIT MORE OF A SAMPLE
SIZE.
IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE TO ME THAT
YOU GUYS HAVE A CLEAR FINANCIAL
PICTURE OF WHAT COMPLIANCE WILL
COST ACROSS THE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF UNITS OR WHAT SUPPORTS WILL
BE AVAILABLE.
I JUST KEEP HEARING THAT
REBATES ARE AVAILABLE BUT THAT
HASN'T REALLY BEEN DEFINED FOR
ANY OF US AND I HAVEN'T SEEN A
CLEAR PICTURE OF LIKE HERE'S
YOUR HOUSE.
THIS IS GOING TO COST YOU THREE
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO GET INTO
COMPLIANCE AND THERE WILL BE
TWO THOUSAND AVAILABLE FROM THE
CITY.
WE JUST DON'T HAVE THAT PICTURE
.
SO IF YOU WANT TO PULL US IN
AND GET OUR FULL SUPPORT, WE'RE
HAPPY TO DO THAT, PROVIDE A
LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION,
PAUSE, REVIEW THE HERR'S DATA,
COMPLETE THE CHECKLIST AND
SEVERAL OTHER OLDER
MULTI-FAMILY HOMES PARTICULARLY
IN LOWER AREAS OF TOWN BUILD TO
CLEAR DATA INFORMED PICTURE
OF THE REAL COST LANDLORDS AND
DEVELOP A PLAN THAT BALANCES
CLIMATE ACTION.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS NANCY BACK
.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS NANCY BOWER BANK
BACK.
THAT'S OK.
I'M BACK.
NO I'M HERE FOR THE FIRST TIME.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M A PROUD RESIDENT OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND CURRENTLY
THE GENERAL MANAGER
OF RHINEHART REALTORS.
I'M NOT IN FAVOR OF THE CURRENT
GREEN RENTAL ORDINANCE AS
WRITTEN IN MY OPINION THIS
ORDINANCE IS COMPLICATED AS
WELL AS LENGTHY.
IT ALSO DOES NOT SEEM TO MAKE
SENSE FOR INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY
OWNERS WHO RENT JUST A SINGLE
FAMILY PROPERTY.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF TRYING TO
RECYCLE AND REDUCE OUR ENERGY
USAGE BUT FEEL AS IF THE BABY'S
BEING THROWN OUT WITH THE
BATHWATER.
I FEEL AS IF NOT ALL
STAKEHOLDERS HAVE HAD A CHANCE
TO WEIGH IN AND ASSIST IN THE
ORDINANCE FORMATION AND THINK
THIS ORDINANCE DESERVES THAT
CHANCE.
PLEASE DO NOT VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS ORDINANCE IN ITS
CURRENT FORM.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS ALEX LOWE
.
ALEX LOWE WILL BE JOINING US ON
ZOHN.
ALEX LOW FRESCA SIX TIME
YOURSELF.
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING IN
FROM MOULTRIE WAS RECENTLY
CONGRATULATED FOR OVER 70
PUBLIC COMMENTS AT CITY
MEETINGS AND I JUST LIKE TO
THANK THE PERSON WHO DID THAT
COUNT FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT.
SO LET'S TALK ABOUT YOU AND ITS
REZONING OF THIS PUBLIC LAND TO
THE ONE DISTRICT.
I DO NOT BELIEVE THIS ONE IS AN
APPROPRIATE FIT FOR THE
CHARACTER OF THIS OCCASION.
THAT IS NOT HOWEVER AN ISSUE TO
DO WITH THIS PARTICULAR
REZONING BUT RATHER AN
INDICTMENT OF THE OVER THE
ZONING DISTRICT THAT COULD
LIMIT OBSTRUCTION IN THAT AREA
TO UNDER FIFTY FIVE METERS.
I HOPE WE CAN RESOLVE THIS BY
FIXING OUR ZONING MORE URGENT.
THERE IS DISCUSSION OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS RETURN TO OFFICE
MANDATE AS SOMEONE WORKING FOR
A COMPANY THAT HAS BEEN FULLY
REMOTE FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS.
>> THE REASONING BEHIND THIS
CHANGE RINGS VERY HOLLOW.
YES, THERE ARE SOME JOBS THAT
CANNOT FEASIBLY BE DONE WITH
REMOTE WORK THAT LIKEWISE THERE
ARE JOBS WHERE FORCING SOMEONE
INTO AN OFFICE IS HARMFUL NOT
HELPFUL TO PRODUCTIVITY.
THE CITY ALSO HAS JOBS WHERE
IT'S ENTIRELY REASONABLE TO
REQUIRE THAT SOMEONE PHYSICALLY
BE SOMEWHERE FOR A PORTION
OF THEIR TIME BUT THAT
SOMEWHERE IS NEVER AN OFFICE
CITY TO WORK.
>> EMPLOYEES WHO WORK PRIMARILY
IN THE FIELD CAN BE AT LEAST AS
EFFECTIVE FROM A HOME OFFICE
DURING THE ADMINISTRATION TIME
AS THEY CAN FROM CITY HALL.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATORS REQUEST
IS ALSO IN DIRECT CONFLICT WITH
THE CITY COUNCIL'S H0 THAT THE
ADMINISTRATOR HAS WORKED TO
ACCOMMODATE EMPLOYEES WHO DRIVE
WITH SUBSIDIES FOR PARKING
THEIR CARS.
BUT HAS PROVIDED ABSOLUTELY NO
CONSIDERATION FOR EMPLOYEES WHO
INTEND TO REACH THE OFFICE AND
LESS CARBON INTENSIVE WAYS IF
COUNCIL.
THE ADMINISTRATION INSISTS ON
CONTINUING THIS POLICY THAT
PEER REVIEWED STUDIES OUT
OF HARVARD, STANFORD AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SHOW TO
BE UNNECESSARY.
THEN INSTEAD OF SUBSIDIZING THE
WORK THE INCREASE IN VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED IN DIRECT
CONTRADICTION OF THE CITY'S
GOALS.
I IMPLORE YOU TO PROVIDE CITY
EMPLOYEES WITH ACCESS TO THE
TWO DOWNTOWN BIKE HOUSES AND
PASS PASSES FOR THE RTA BUSSES
ON ADVANCED PHYSICS.
>> I JUST LIKE TO THIRTY
SECONDS AT THE SEVEN COMMENTS
BEFORE MINE WERE A ABSOLUTELY
FANTASTIC EXAMPLE OF EXACTLY
WHY THIS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS KATHY JOHNSON
.
>> HI MY NAME IS KATHY JOHNSON
AND I'VE BEEN A PROPERTY
MANAGER IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR FOR OVER THIRTY FIVE
YEARS.
I'VE MANAGED EVERYTHING FROM
STUDENT HOUSING TO APARTMENT
COMMUNITIES AND I CURRENTLY
OVERSEE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES FOR
THE CHARLES RHINEHART COMPANY.
I'M SPEAKING TODAY ON BEHALF
OF THE PROPERTY OWNERS WHO ARE
LEASING OR CONSIDERING LEASING
THEIR HOMES.
I BELIEVE THE CITY HOLDS A VERY
NARROW VIEW OF WHAT CONSTITUTES
A LANDLORD RECENT ORDINANCE
INCLUDING THE ONE CURRENTLY
UNDER CONSIDERATION SEEM TO
HAVE BEEN DECIDED DESIGNED FOR
LARGE SCALE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
FIRMS OR INVESTORS WHO OWN
MULTIPLE RENTALS AS A PRIMARY
INCOME SOURCE.
BUT THE REALITY IS IS THAT MANY
OF THE OWNERS I REPRESENT ARE
INDIVIDUALS RENTING OUT THEIR
PRIMARY HOMES DUE TO LIFE
CIRCUMSTANCES THE JOB
RELOCATION, TEMPORARY MOVES
WHETHER IT'S FOR EDUCATION OR
MEDICAL REASONS, CARING FOR
FAMILY, MOVING INTO ASSISTED
LIVING.
THESE ARE NOT INVESTING MOST
INTEND TO RETURN TO THEIR
HOMES.
SELLING ISN'T AN OPTION FOR
MANY AND DOING SO WOULD PRICE
THEM OUT OF THE MARKET IN THE
FUTURE.
RENTING BECOMES THE BEST AND
SOMETIMES THE ONLY WAY TO
RETAIN THEIR HOMES.
THESE SMALL SCALE OWNERS FACE
SIGNIFICANT COSTS REALTOR
COMMISSIONS, CITY INSPECTIONS
AND PERMITS, CODE REPAIRS,
SPECIALIZED INSURANCE PREMIUMS
,MORTGAGE PAYMENTS, HSA FEES,
MAINTENANCE COSTS, AND THEY'RE
ALREADY PAYING.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE PAYING 30
PERCENT MORE IN THE PROPERTY
TAX SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY RENT
OUT THEIR HOME.
THESE OWNERS ARE NOT PROFITING.
MOST ARE SIMPLY TRYING TO GET
IT TO BREAK EVEN IF THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE PASSES IT
WILL ADD INCREASED COSTS,
INCREASE RENTS AND REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF AVAILABLE RENTALS IN
THE CITY AND ESSENTIALLY
RECEIVE MORE THAN THIRTY
MILLION IN GRANTS FOR
SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES.
IF THESE ORDINANCE ARE MEANT TO
PUSH RENTAL PROPERTIES FOR
GREEN UPGRADES, THEN THE CITY
ALSO MUST PROVIDE FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE FOR COMPLIANCE
ESPECIALLY FOR THOSE WHO DID
NOT PURCHASE THE PROPERTY WITH
PROFIT IN MIND IF POLITICAL
CHANGES RESULT IN THE LOSS
OF THAT GRANT, FUNDING WILL THE
CITY MOVE FORWARD WITH THEIR
INITIATIVES OR WILL THEY BE
DEEMED TOO EXPENSIVE?
THAT SAME QUESTION SHOULD APPLY
TO THE PROPERTY OWNERS WHO ARE
BURDENING THESE MANDATES.
WE'RE STILL RECOVERING FROM
PANDEMIC ERA PRICE HIKES ON
MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.
IS THIS REALLY THE MOMENT TO
IMPOSE COSTLY AND COMPLEX
MANDATES TO DISPROPORTIONATELY
AFFECT SMALL LANDLORDS?
THIS IS A CRITICAL MOMENT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT A LANDLORDS
OFTEN NOT A WEALTHY INVESTOR
BUT A NEIGHBOR, A RETIREE, A
PERSON JUST TRYING TO HOLD ON
TO THEIR HOME.
THE ORDINANCE PROPOSED LACKS
THE NUANCE AND THREATENS TO
MAKE HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR EVEN
MORE DIFFICULT TO ACCESS FOR
BOTH OWNERS AND RENTERS.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS MARK SERBO
HELLO
COUNCIL SCARBRO TWENTY
SEVENTEEN 3RD STREET.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR SINCE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND IN THAT
TIME I HAVE LIVED IN SIX
DIFFERENT HOMES.
AT LEAST ONE OF THOSE WAS A
GREEN HOME BECAUSE THERE WAS A
PLANT GROWING THROUGH THE WALLS
OF MY KITCHEN.
>> I LIVED IN PLACES WITH MOLD
ON THE WINDOWS WITH THE
LANDLORD TOLD ME THE MOLD THAT
YOU CAN SEE IS ACTUALLY THE
MOLD.
THAT'S NOT BAD FOR YOU.
IT'S FINE.
SO OBVIOUSLY I'M SPEAKING IN
SUPPORT OF THE GREEN HOUSING
ORDINANCE.
I READ THE THE ORDINANCE TEXT
AND I DON'T KNOW IF SOMETIME IN
THE MORNING WHILE DRINKING MY
COFFEE IT'S REALLY NOT THAT
COMPLICATED.
YOU GET POINTS THERE'S POINTS
FOR A TON OF STUFF THAT'S NOT
EXPENSIVE THINGS LIKE EMAILING
YOUR TENANTS ABOUT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY, PROVIDING A COMPOST
BIN WHICH I THE CITY PROVIDES
FOR FREE UPDATING THE LEASE
LANGUAGE TO SAY
THAT IT'S A
GREEN LEASE GETTING RENTERS TO
WATCH A SUSTAINABILITY VIDEO
MOWING THE GRASS LESS
FREQUENTLY, MAKING SURE THAT
THE WINDOWS CAN BE OPENED
ALLOWING TENANTS TO SEAL THEIR
WINDOWS IN THE WINTER WITH A
FILM AND MAKING SURE THAT THE
ATTIC IS INSULATED.
ALL OF THESE ARE SOME OF THE
EXAMPLES IN THE ORDINANCE THAT
LETS YOU GET TO THAT GREEN
HOUSING TOTAL NUMBER OF POINTS.
I DON'T THINK IT'S THAT
COMPLICATED.
I GUESS I I DON'T I'M NOT A
LANDLORD SO MAYBE IT'S MORE
COMPLICATED THAN THAT.
BUT FROM MY READING IT SEEMS
PRETTY SIMPLE AND IN TERMS
OF THE WORRY ABOUT DRIVING UP
HOUSING COST, WE KNOW THAT WHAT
DRIVES HOUSING COSTS ANN ARBOR
IS NOT A GREEN ORDINANCE BUT
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
THERE'S A TON OF DEMAND FOR
HOUSING.
THERE'S NOT MUCH SUPPLY.
WE'VE BANNED THE CREATION
OF NEW SUPPLY OF HOUSING ACROSS
MOST OF THE CITY.
SO IF LANDLORDS REALLY CARED
ABOUT THEIR COSTS MAIN ONE
BEING PROPERTY TAXES THEY WOULD
ENCOURAGE NEW DEVELOPMENT
OF MORE HOUSING THAT WOULD
BRING DOWN THE PROPERTY TAXES
FOR MORE PEOPLE AND THEY
WOULDN'T BE SO CONCERNED ABOUT
THESE VERY EASY TO ACHIEVE
BASIC HABITABILITY MEASURES
ALONG THE SAME LINES I WANT TO
SPEAK IN SUPPORT FOR THE
REZONING OF PUBLIC LAND FOR A
LIBRARY.
I'M REALLY, REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
IT'S INCREDIBLE WE CAN HAVE A
SHINY NEW LIBRARY THAT HAS LOTS
OF BOOKS BUT ALSO LOTS
OF PUBLIC PROGRAMING SPACE
COMMON AREAS FOR PEOPLE TO HANG
OUT, TO LISTEN TO MUSIC, TO
LEARN NEW THINGS AS WELL AS
MORE HOUSING FOR LIBRARIANS WHO
WANT TO LIVE NEAR WORK OR
NURSES OR ARTISTS OR PEOPLE WHO
JUST NEED HOUSING IN THE CITY.
IT WOULD BE SILLY NOT TO HAVE A
DOWNTOWN ZONED AREA RIGHT NEXT
TO OUR TRANSIT CENTER.
SO IT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO
ME TO ZONE SOMETHING FOR PUBLIC
LAND TO DO ONE THAT'S THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT STOP IS KENT GARBER
.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR TAMARA
DENHA.
I'M KEN GARBER.
I'M A RENTER IN THE SECOND WARD
.
I'M ALSO A FORMER VOLUNTEER
STAFFER FOR THE NEIGHBOR
TENANTS UNION AND I'M A CLIMATE
ACTIVIST.
I REALLY AGREE WITH MR.
SCARBRO.
HE PUT IT QUITE WELL.
I LIKE HIM.
I SUPPORT THIS REGIONAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE.
I MEAN IT'S ALWAYS AMUSING TO
HEAR LANDLORD SPEAK ON BEHALF
OF US TENANTS AND IT'S THE IDEA
THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL
SOMEHOW CAUSE THEM TO RAISE
RENTS OR SELL EVEN SELL THEIR
UNITS TO IS LUDICROUS PAY NO
ATTENTION TO THIS FEAR
MONGERING.
THE ORDINANCE IS INCREDIBLY
LENIENT AS MR. KERBEL DETAILED
,MOST LANDLORDS ARE GOING TO
CHOOSE THE CHECKLIST OPTION
EVEN THOUGH THE HIGH SCORE
OPTION OF ONE TEN BELOW IS
PRETTY MINIMAL BUILDING
EFFICIENCY FOR THE CHECKLIST
RIDICULOUSLY EASY TO SCORE 70
POINTS OR THE LONG TERM ONE
HUNDRED TEN POINTS OUT OF THE
THREE HUNDRED ON PAPER LIKE MR.
SQUARESVILLE I WAS EASILY ABLE
TO PUT TOGETHER A SERIES
OF FREE OR CHEAP MEASURES FOR
THE ONE HUNDRED AND TEN POINTS
LOTS OF POINTS JUST FOR TEN AND
EDUCATION ITEMS ETC. THERE'S
ABSOLUTELY NO NEED TO MODIFY
THE BUILDING AT ALL.
>> SO THIS ALL THIS ABOUT
PUTTING IN HAVING TO PUT IN
HEAT PUMPS OR FULLY ELECTRIFIED
THE UNITS.
UNFORTUNATELY NO ONE IS GOING
TO HAVE TO DO AND I THINK FEW
ACTUALLY WILL USE THAT OPTION
FOR POINTS BECAUSE THERE'S SO
MANY MORE AFFORDABLE WAYS TO DO
IT.
SO I MEAN POINTS FOR SPONSORING
A COOKING CLASS I THINK THAT'S
FINE.
BUT THIS IS THE SORT OF THING
THAT THAT THEY'RE BEING ASKED
TO DO SO MY PROBLEM WITH THE
ORDINANCE IS IT'S TOO LENIENT
AS IT STANDS.
IT WILL BE INEFFECTIVE IN TERMS
OF ADVANCING THE CITY'S CLIMATE
GOALS.
YOU KNOW, I GUESS THE BIGGEST
VALUE HERE IS THAT YOU'RE
PUTTING A CHECKLIST IN THE
HANDS OF LANDLORDS BECAUSE IT
MAY GET SOME OF THEM TO
ACTUALLY THINK ABOUT GREEN
PRACTICES WHICH I THINK THEY
SELDOM DO.
BUT IF THIS ORDINANCE IS FRAMED
AS A CLIMATE SOLUTION, THEN IT
DOES MORE HARM THAN GOOD
BECAUSE IT GIVES THE IMPRESSION
THAT IT SOLVES THE PROBLEM.
>> IT DOESN'T EVEN START TO DO
THAT.
SO GO AHEAD AND APPROVE IT BUT
REALIZE THAT GETTING RID
OF STAFF AND BUILDINGS TO DO
THAT IT'S THE IT THAT WILL TAKE
SOMETHING ELSE HOPEFULLY
SOMETHING SHORT OF COMPLETE
CLIMATE APOCALYPSE LANDLORDS
ACCEPTING A SHARE
OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLIMATE
CHANGE AS WE ALL MUST DO IN THE
FACE OF THIS CRISIS WOULD BE A
GOOD START.
SO I FINALLY I APPRECIATE
STAFFS LONG YEARS OF WORK ON
THIS ESPECIALLY JOE LANGE.
BUT AGAIN I SUPPORTED GENTLY
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T GO FAR
ENOUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS PETER
HIGH COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND ADMINISTRATOR TONY.
I'M PETER.
I'M ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION BUT TONIGHT I'M
SHARING MY OWN THOUGHTS ON
FLASHING YELLOW ARROWS.
SOME INTERSECTIONS IN THE CITY
HAVE FLASHING YELLOW ARROW
ARROW SIGNALS THE DIRECT
TURNING TRAFFIC THROUGH
CROSSWALKS THAT PEDESTRIANS ARE
USING OVER THE PAST YEAR STAFF
HAS DONE AN EXCELLENT JOB
OF CONVERTING MANY OF THESE
SIGNALS SO THAT THE YELLOW
ARROW IS CANCELED WHEN
PEDESTRIANS ARE PRESENT.
THE RECOMMENDATION TO DO THIS
CAME AFTER A TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION REVIEW OF CRASHES
AND NEAR MISSES IN THE CITY 17
OUT OF THE TWENTY SIX
INTERSECTIONS LIKE THIS HAVE
BEEN CONVERTED OVER THE LAST
YEAR.
THE REMAINING INTERSECTIONS
HAVE SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES THAT
REQUIRE NEW HARDWARE, SOFTWARE
OR CONSTRUCTION.
WHILE WE ARE WAITING FOR THESE
CHANGES WE SHOULD DEACTIVATE
THE FLASHING YELLOW ARROWS AT
THESE INTERSECTIONS UNTIL THE
FIXES ARE READY AT THE LAST
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
MEETING WE DISCUSSED DOING
EXACTLY THAT SOME OF THE
REMAINING INTERSECTIONS ALSO
CAN'T CHANGE WITHOUT
COORDINATION FROM U OF M OR
MODOT IN THIS DIALOG NEEDS TO
BE STARTED RIGHT NOW ONE OF THE
INTERSECTIONS THAT REMAINS TO
BE FIXED IS HURON AND DIVISION.
LAST WEDNESDAY A PEDESTRIAN WAS
SERIOUSLY INJURED THERE BY A
LEFT TURNING CAR SO WE IMPROVED
SEVENTEEN OF THESE
INTERSECTIONS BUT WHILE WE WERE
WAITING FOR THIS INTERSECTION
TO BE FIXED, SOMEONE ELSE GOT
HURT.
ADMINISTRATOR TONY, WE NEED
YOUR LEADERSHIP ON THIS
PROBLEM.
COUNCIL HAS ALREADY AFFIRMED
THE VISION ZERO GOAL OF ZERO
SERIOUS INJURIES, NO FATALITIES
ON OUR STREETS.
THEY REAFFIRMED IT AS RECENTLY
AS THEIR APRIL 7TH MEETING.
SO MR. DOWNEY, PLEASE FOLLOW
THROUGH BY IMPLEMENTING SUPPORT
STAFF AND MAKING THIS CHANGE,
REMOVE THE ROADBLOCKS, GET THIS
PROBLEM SOLVED, DEACTIVATE
THESE REMAINING FLASHING YELLOW
ARROWS RIGHT NOW TO PROTECT
PUBLIC SAFETY.
WE ARE WAITING FOR ACTION AND
WE NEED IT BEFORE ANOTHER
PERSON GETS HURT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE EILEEN SPRING
.
HI EVERYONE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE.
I'M EILEEN SPRING AND I'M HERE
ON BEHALF OF THE MORE THAN ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY COMMUNITY
PROGRAMS WHO RELY ON FOOD
GATHERS DAILY DISTRIBUTION
OF FOOD IN THE FORM OF FREE
GROCERIES AND MEALS AT SHELTERS
,AFFORDABLE HOUSING SITES,
FOOD PANTRIES, HEALTH CLINICS
THROUGHOUT WASHTENAW COUNTY IN
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOUR OUR
NETWORK PROVIDED NINE POINT
NINE MILLION POUNDS OF FOOD TO
SIXTY THOUSAND DIFFERENT PEOPLE
COUNTING EVERY PERSON IN EACH
HOUSEHOLD EACH TIME THEY GOT
SERVICES WE HAD ONE MILLION
TOTAL VISITS IN FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY PERCENT
OF THOSE PEOPLE WE SERVE LIVE
IN ANN HARBOR.
THE USDA HAS BEEN A RELIABLE
SOURCE OF FOOD AND FOOD
PURCHASING GRANTS FOR FOOD
BANKS LIKE FOOD GATHERERS.
HOWEVER, IN MARCH OF THIS YEAR
WE WERE INFORMED THAT HALF
OF THIS FOOD SOURCE HAD BEEN
ABRUPTLY CANCELED.
THIS TYPE OF USDA FOOD WAS 15
PERCENT OF OUR TOTAL FOOD
DISTRIBUTION THE EQUIVALENT
OF MORE THAN ONE POINT TWO
MILLION MEALS.
THIS IS HIGHLY DESIRABLE FOOD,
MILK, CHEESE, EGGS, PORK,
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.
OUR COMMUNITY ALSO BENEFITED
FROM A LOCAL FOOD PURCHASING
GRANT WHICH ENABLED US TO
SOURCE FOOD FROM LOCAL FARMERS
RIGHT IN A TWO HUNDRED MILE
RADIUS.
THIS GRANT ENDS IN SEPTEMBER
OF THIS YEAR AND WILL NOT BE
RENEWED ANIMAL FUNDING.
WE'VE ALSO GROWN TO RELY ON
FROM THE FEMA EMERGENCY FOOD
AND SHELTER PROGRAM WHICH
SUPPORTS SHELTERS AND EMERGENCY
FOOD IS QUOTE UNQUOTE PAUSED.
FOOD GATHERS HAS BEEN DIPPING
INTO RESERVES TO PURCHASE MORE
FOOD IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN THE
LEVEL OF SERVICE TO OUR
COMMUNITY WHO HAS RELIED ON US.
WE ARE ACTIVELY ADVOCATING FOR
THE RESTORATION OF FEDERAL
RESOURCES AS WELL SEEKING
IMPORTANT SUPPORT FROM LOCAL
GOVERNMENT ENTITIES AND PRIVATE
PHILANTHROPY.
WE AND OTHER FOOD BANKS
THROUGHOUT THE NATION WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO FOOD DRIVE OUR WAY
OUT OF THIS CRISIS.
WE ARE HOPING THAT THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR WILL CONSIDER
ALLOCATING MORE RESOURCES TO
OUR LOCAL FOOD SAFETY NET.
WE ESTIMATE IT WILL COST US AN
ADDITIONAL TWO POINT FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS TO REPLACE THE
LOSS OF FEDERAL FOOD.
I'VE SHARED THIS INFORMATION IN
AN EMAIL EMAIL WITH YOU SENT
ABOUT A WEEK TO GO AND SO AS WE
ADVOCATE ADVOCATE TO RESTORE OR
REPLACE THE SOURCE OF FOOD, WE
ALSO MUST DO SOME GRIM SCENARIO
PLANNING.
AND I'VE SENT YOU A LINK TO A
SURVEY ASKING FOR YOUR INPUT ON
HOW WE DECIDE WHICH PROGRAMS WE
SCALE BACK
ON WHICH SECTORS DO
WE PRIORITIZE THE UN HOUSED
FOOD INSECURE CHILDREN,
VETERANS.
I ASK THAT YOU OFFER YOUR
INSIGHTS BUT MOREOVER I ASK
THAT YOU HELP US AVOID HAVING
TO MAKE THESE CHOICES IN THE
FUTURE.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE THEODORE POLING
AFTER POLLING WILL BE JOINING
US ON ZOOME
CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENERGON 037 ASTAR
SIX YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
THANK.
I HOPE YOU'RE ALL DOING WELL.
MY NAME IS PAUL AND I AND HE
PRONOUNCED MY PARENTS AND
STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND I'VE GROWN UP
HERE ALL MY LIFE BUT I DON'T
REALLY HAVE A LOT OF THE SAME
OPPORTUNITIES THEY DID WHEN
THEY WERE MY AGE WHEN MY MOM
WAS TWENTY SEVEN SHE WAS
MARRIED TO AN ATTORNEY.
SHE PAID OFF HER MORTGAGE.
SHE EARNED AN MBA.
SHE HAD ONE CHILD AND ANOTHER
ONE ON THE WAY AND SHE WORKED A
JOB THAT MADE EIGHTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS IN TODAY'S
DOLLARS I'M TWENTY SEVEN HAVE
NEVER OWNED A NEWLY SINGLE I
HAVE A MASTER'S OF EDUCATION A
LOT OF STUDENT LOAN AND I WORK
A JOB THAT MAKES FORTY NINE
THOUSAND DOLLARS AFTER TAXES
AND HEALTH INSURANCE AND
TRANSPORTATION BECAUSE I CAN'T
AFFORD TO LIVE WITHIN THE CITY
THAT I WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN IT'S REALLY NOT A
LOT TO LIVE ON.
SO I FOUND OUT ABOUT A PROGRAM
CALLED THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
LAND TRUST AND HOPE FOR THE
FIRST TIME AND MAYBE I'D BE
ABLE TO LIVE IN THE CITY AND
OWN MY OWN HOME AND I OUT WITH
THEIR LOTTERY QUITE RECENTLY AT
FIFTEEN THIRTY FIVE MAPLE ROAD
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
OTHER RENTALS THAT I'VE BEEN
BEEN HARASSED BY NEIGHBORS FOR
MY GENDER IDENTITY I'VE DEALT
WITH UNSAFE CONDITIONS FROM
APATHETIC I'M AND I CURRENTLY
STRUGGLE A LOT LIVING AT HOME
WITH MY PARENTS.
THEIR COGNITIVE ABILITIES ARE
IN DECLINE AND YOUR FEAR AND
ANGER KEEP GROWING EVERY DAY
AND I BECOME THE UNFORTUNATE
TARGET.
WE'RE NOT USING ANY HYPERBOLE
GUYS WHEN I SAY THAT THIS HOME
FROM THE COMMUNITY AND TRY TO
SAVE MY LIFE AND I REALLY HAVE
AN URGENT NEED TO MOVE AS SOON
AS I CAN FOR MY SAFETY, MY
HEALTH SCHEDULE LIKE ACCORDING
TO THE COUNCIL PEOPLE IF YOU
HAVE ANY POWER TO HELP THIS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION EXPEDITE
SOME OF THE APPROVALS THAT THE
COMMUNITY INTEREST IS WAITING
ON TO GET THESE HOMES BUILT.
WELL, IF I UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY
,THEY NEED APPROVAL TO PUT TWO
HOMES ON EACH SIDE AND AFTER TO
GET HOUSING THE PROGRAM
PROGRAMS AFFORDABLE.
I'M ASKING YOU SPECIFICALLY TO
PLEASE HELP US WITH THE D
APPROVAL TO THEIR COMMUNITY AND
I BELIEVE YOU HAVE MY PHONE
NUMBER MY CONTACT INFORMATION
FROM SPEAKING HERE.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO HEAR MORE
OF MY STORY WITH HOWEVER AGAIN
THAT'S THE END OF MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
LISTENING TO ME.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE SARAH LAWRENCE
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SARAH LAWRENCE.
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
THANK YOU FOR SERVING ON CITY
COUNCIL.
I APPRECIATE YOUR PUBLIC
SERVICE.
I SPOKE TO YOU HERE IN
OCTOBER OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE
IN JULY OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
ABOUT OUR DEVELOPING PLANS TO
ESTABLISH THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST AND I'M
VERY PLEASED TO REPORT THAT
MANY STEPS HAVE BEEN MADE.
WE'VE OVERCOME MANY CHALLENGES
AND WE ARE ALMOST THERE VERY
CLOSE TO BREAKING GROUND.
IN FACT I THOUGHT ABOUT
BRINGING A SHOVEL WITH ME TO
DEMONSTRATE HOW CLOSE WE WERE
AND THEN I THOUGHT AGAIN ABOUT
BRINGING A LARGE METAL
IMPLEMENT TO A PUBLIC MEETING.
>> SO I HAVE A METAPHORICAL
SHOVEL IN MY HANDS HERE TO TELL
YOU THAT WE ARE ALMOST READY TO
BREAK GROUND.
WE IN FACT ARE SO CONFIDENT
THAT WE HAVE LINED UP BUYERS
AND THEY ARE SO EXCITED.
IT HAS BEEN SUCH A JOY AND
ACTUALLY VERY HEARTBREAKING TO
HEAR ALL THE STORIES OF THE
BUYERS WHO ARE CONTACTING US.
WE HAVE LISTINGS ON ZILLOW AND
THAT IS DIRECTING PEOPLE TO
COME TO OUR WEBSITE.
THEY ARE FILLING OUT OUR BUYERS
SURVEY AND I READ THOSE
COMMENTS I READ ABOUT THE KIND
OF HOUSING THEY'RE LOOKING FOR
ABOUT THEIR FAMILY SIZE, WHAT
THEY NEED, WHERE THEY WORK AND
WHERE THEY NEED TO LIVE AND
THEY ARE SO HOPEFUL THAT THEY
MANY OF THEM ARE SAYING I NEVER
THOUGHT THAT I WOULD EVER BE
ABLE TO LIVE NEAR MY WORK OR MY
FAMILY IN ANN ARBOR.
>> SO I SENSE THEIR JOY AND
THEIR HOPE.
BUT IT'S ALSO HEARTBREAKING TO
HEAR SOME OF THESE STORIES
ABOUT HOW FAR PEOPLE DRIVE, HOW
THEY'RE SEPARATED FROM THEIR
FAMILIES, HOW THEY YOU THEY
FEEL LIKE THEY'RE NOT A PART
OF THE COMMUNITY THAT THEY
SERVE AND SO I'M REALLY HOPING
THAT WE CAN GET THIS WORK
UNDERWAY AND I'VE REALLY BEEN
INSPIRED BY A COUPLE OF OTHER
COMMUNITIES THAT ARE DOING
AMAZING THINGS.
IN FACT, I HEARD ABOUT A YEAR
AGO ABOUT JACKSON AND THEY HAVE
WORKED WITH NORFORK HOMES WHICH
IS THE HOME BUILDER THAT IS
BASED HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY ARE BUILDING 100 HOMES IN
JACKSON AND THEY ARE SELLING
THOSE AT ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
PER HOME WHICH IS REALLY
IMPRESSIVE.
NORFOLK HAS BEEN PARTNERING
WITH THEM AND AS A RESULT
OF LEARNING ABOUT THIS WE HAVE
SELECTED NORFOLK HOMES AS OUR
GENERAL CONTRACTOR FOR THIS
PROJECT AND NOW I LEARNED THAT
PONTIAC ONCE NORFOLK TO COME
AND BUILD 500 HOMES THERE AND
SO I HAVE A LITTLE CASE
OF MUNICIPAL ENVY AND I REALLY
WANT US TO GET MOVING BECAUSE
WE NEED FIVE HUNDRED HOMES AT
LEAST.
AND THEN I LEARNED ABOUT
KALAMAZOO THIS WEEK HAS GOTTEN
A PRIZE THE IVORY PRIZE FOR
THEIR USE OF HOUSING TIF THEY
HAVE BUILT OVER 200 HOMES THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN SELLING FOR
AROUND TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND I KNOW THAT WE CAN
DO THE SAME THING HERE.
OUR GROUP HAS BEEN WORKING FOR
ALMOST FIVE YEARS NOW AND WE
ARE READY TO BUILD THE HOMES
THAT WE NEED.
>> THANK YOU.
>> NEXT UP IS ALAN HABOUR
AGAIN
.
I DO SHORT FOR MANY RESIDENTS
TO HAVE THE AMPLITUDE OF THE
SOUND SYSTEM A LITTLE LOUDER SO
YOU COULD HEAR BETTER HERE
OF COURSE AGAIN GOT ON THE
QUESTION OF THE COMMONS.
I WENT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THE FIRST TIME
AND I WAS SURPRISED THAT THERE
IS NO MEMORY IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AT ALL OF THE
SUCHART IN OR OF THE DIRECTION
THAT THE CENTER OF THE CITY
SHOULD BE SEEN AS A CENTRAL
ELEMENT IN THE CITY MASTER PLAN
.
THERE WAS SOME COMMENT ON OPEN
SPACE BUT THE SENSE THAT THERE
WAS THAT THE CITY HAD LOOKED AT
THE CENTER OF THE CITY AS A
FOCAL POINT DID NOT SEEM TO GET
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
I WOULD SAY IT HAS NOT BEEN
MUCH IN YOUR ATTENTION AS WELL.
I'M VERY SAD AS YOU KNOW THAT
YOU ARE MOVING TOWARD
ELIMINATING THE WHOLE SENSE
OF THE COMMUNITY COMMONS AND
REPLACING IT WITH A LARGE
BUILDING WELL SO CLEAR IN THE
WHOLE PROCESS FROM THIS BEGAN
IN 2009 THAT PEOPLE WANTED A
SHADOW OF THE CITY THAT HOUSE
SOME OPEN SPACE AND GREEN.
THERE'S A PARK THAT HAS FOUND
WHERE CHILDREN ARE WELCOME AND
THAT CERTAIN SOMEHOW THE MANY
HOUSES THAT HAS BEEN DEVELOPED
AND NOW WHERE THE OLD CREDIT
UNION WAS OR THE HOUSING ON TOP
OF THE LIBRARY AND ITS CURRENT
PLACE IS INTENDED TO BE THE
HOUSES AND AND WHERE THE LIE
WAS NEW HOUSING SLURRIES WHERE
IS THE PLACE FOR THESE PEOPLE
YOU'VE NEVER HEARD OF AN ACTUAL
LOCATION OF WHAT HAS BEEN DONE
AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
COMMONS.
I SENT YOU A LETTER SO I
OUTLINED SOME OF THAT FOR YOU.
>> BUT IT IS VERY PROPER THAT
YOU FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTION THAT
YOU HAD A YEAR MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO WHEN THE COUNCIL OF THE
COMMONS RESOLVED ITSELF SAYING
THAT THERE SHOULD BE OUTSIDE
CONSULTATION AND DIRECTING.
WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS YOU
SIMPLY IGNORED AND IGNORED THE
DIRECTION OF THE BOUNDARIES
THAT THIS GRANT STEP IS AT THE
CENTER OF THE CITY SHOULD BE
DEVELOPED AS A CENTRAL PARK AS
A CIVIC CENTER AND AS A PLACE
OF MANY GATHERINGS.
>> I WISH PEOPLE HAD COME TO
THE VARIOUS EVENTS.
SO YOU KEPT YOURSELF TO IT AND
THANK YOU.
WISH THAT YOU WOULD SEE YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE CITY
CHARTER AND YOUR OWN.
>> THANK YOU.
HAVING REACHED THE CONCLUSION
OF OUR FORTY FIVE MINUTE PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD, WE WILL REOPEN
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE END
OF THE MEETING FOR OUR
REMAINING SPEAKERS.
I'M THEIR COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL THIS EVENING COUNCIL
MEMBER ALEC THANK YOU MAYOR.
TONIGHT I HAVE TWO SPECIAL
GUESTS WITH ME.
THEY ARE VISITING ANN ARBOR
THIS WEEK FROM WISCONSIN, PETER
AND BETTY MALLIK BETTER KNOWN
AS MY PARENTS.
>> THEY ARE BOTH ELECTED
OFFICIALS IN THEIR OWN RIGHT.
MY DAD IS PRESIDENT OF THE
VILLAGE OF JUNCTION CITY,
WISCONSIN AND MY MOM IS THE
CLERK OF JUNCTION CITY.
WISCONSIN HAS HELD OFFICE SINCE
TWO TWENTY NINE WHILE MY MOM TO
OUR KNOWLEDGE IS THE LONGEST
ACTIVE SERVING CLERK IN THE
ENTIRE STATE OF WISCONSIN AT
FORTY FOUR YEARS AND COUNTING
GROWING UP I SAW THEM JUGGLE
THEIR PART TIME
ELECTED
OFFICES, THEIR FULL TIME DAY
JOBS ALSO IN PUBLIC SERVICE
OPERATE A ONE HUNDRED COW DAIRY
FARM AND RAISE ME AND MY FOUR
SIBLINGS.
DESPITE THAT HEAVY WORKLOAD AND
PERSONAL SACRIFICE, THEY'VE
TAKEN GREAT PRIDE OVER THE
YEARS AND THEIR HARD WORK AND
ACCOMPLISHMENTS TOWARDS THE
GREATER PUBLIC GOOD.
YOU CAN PROBABLY UNDERSTAND MY
FEELING GROWING UP THEN THAT I
NEVER WANTED TO BE AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL MYSELF.
THAT LEVEL OF HARD WORK I
DIDN'T THINK WAS FOR ME.
HOWEVER, FAST FORWARD TO TODAY
AND HERE I AM PROOF THAT NO
MATTER WHAT YOU DO YOU
BASICALLY BECOME YOUR PARENTS
ANYWAYS LUCKY ME I AM ALL THE
BETTER FOR HAVING THEM AS ROLE
MODELS IN MY LIFE SO FAR DURING
THEIR VISIT MY DAD HAS READ THE
MAJORITY OF THE FOUR HUNDRED
PLUS PAGE PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX AND NO BUDGET
SITTING ON MY COFFEE TABLE
BECAUSE JUNCTION CITY WISCONSIN
IS ALSO LOOKING TO UPDATE THEIR
LAND USE PLAN IN THE COMING
MONTHS THEY PLAN TO ACCOMPANY
ME TO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE OPEN HOUSE AT RIVERWOOD
LIBRARY THIS WEDNESDAY BETWEEN
THREE AND SEVEN PM WHERE
EVERYONE IS WELCOME.
WE ALSO SNAGGED A TOUR DATE AT
THE WATER TREATMENT PLANT ON
SATURDAY TO CELEBRATE DRINKING
WATER WEEK AFTER WE GO TO THE
FARMER'S MARKET OF COURSE.
AND LASTLY THEY PLAN TO ATTEND
MY AND COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON'S
LISTENING SESSION THIS SATURDAY
MAY TEN FROM THREE TO FOUR P.M.
ET TRAVER WITH LIBRARY WHERE
EVERYONE IS ALSO INVITED ON ALL
WE HAVE A FUN WEEK AHEAD OF US
AND I'M EXCITED TO SHOW THEM
SOME OF THE BEST ANN ARBOR HAS
TO OFFER.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU AND WELCOME TO THE
MATLOCK'S COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
WELCOME TO YOUR MUNICIPAL
HOLIDAY.
SO WARD ONE AND ANN ARBOR HAVE
LOST A LEADER IN SHIRLEY
BECKLEY AND THOUGH MR. DAVIS
HAS LEFT I JUST WANTED MOST
OF THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL IS NOT HERE ANYMORE.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK THEM FOR
SPEAKING TONIGHT AND I KNOW
THAT YOU HAVE LOST A LEADER AND
A FRIEND, SO THANK YOU.
>> I DO NOT NEED TO ANNOUNCE
THAT WEDNESDAY MAY 7TH THREE TO
SEVEN P.M. AT THE TREVOR WOOD
LIBRARY THERE WILL BE AN
ENGAGEMENT SESSION ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
BUT BECAUSE YOU CAN NEVER
REPEAT ANYTHING ENOUGH I JUST
HAVE IN ADDITION CYNTHIA
HARRISON AND I WILL HAVE A
COFFEE HOUR AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY ON MONDAY, MAY 12TH
FROM FIVE P.M. TO SIX THIRTY
PM.
WE WILL BE FOCUSED ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
THERE WILL NOT BE STAFF THERE
BECAUSE WE ARE GIVING THEM A
TINY BREAK A COUPLE OF BITS
OF NEWS THAT I FOUND IN THE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS NEWSLETTER
THAT ARE WORTH CELEBRATING OVER
70 PERCENT OF THE ELECTRICITY
USED TO POWER THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS
IS NOW GENERATED BY RENEWABLE
ENERGY SOURCES.
A TOTAL OF 74 CITY SITES ARE
NOW ENROLLED IN MICHIGAN'S
ELECTRIC EXCUSE ME ELECTRIC
CUSTOMER CHOICE PROGRAM WHICH
MEANS THAT THEY RECEIVE ENERGY
FROM CONSTELLATION ENERGY, THE
NATION'S LARGEST PRODUCER
OF CARBON FREE ENERGY.
>> AND IN ADDITION TO THIS
SOLAR AT ANN ARBOR CITY
FACILITY GENERATED ALMOST 600
MEGAWATT HOURS OF ADDITIONAL
ELECTRICITY IN 2024 AND THAT'S
A LOT.
>> IN ADDITION, THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HAS BEEN AWARDED THE
PRESTIGIOUS BEST IN THE MIDWEST
HONOR BY THE CLIMATE ACTION
MUSEUM CAN YOU BELIEVE THERE IS
A CLIMATE ACTION MUSEUM, A
MUSEUM FOR THINGS THAT ARE
ALIVE AND KICKING?
AND THIS AWARD OF COURSE
RECOGNIZES THAT A TWO ZERO
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN AND ITS
WORK TO SET THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY AS WELL AS ITS
TRANSFORMATION UNDERWAY OF THE
BRYAN COMMUNITY CENTER INTO OR
RATHER HAS HAPPENED INTO A NET
ZERO ENERGY FACILITY AND
CLIMATE ACTION LAB. SO THANK
YOU FOR ALL OF THAT.
GOOD WORK OSSI AND THANK YOU
RESIDENTS FOR SUPPORTING IT
WITH THE MILLAGE COUNCIL MEMBER
QUINNELL THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD PERHAPS TO
COUNCIL MEMBER ALEX AGENDA THIS
WEEKEND TREATING HIS PARENTS TO
BLOOM BEST DOWNTOWN IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> IT IS NOT A SURPRISE TO MAIN
STREET AREA ASSOCIATION
INITIATIVE TO BRING PEOPLE
DOWNTOWN TO SMART TO SUPPORT
OUR SMALL BUSINESSES.
IT IS MAY 9TH THROUGH 11TH SO
THIS WEEKEND PERFECTLY TIMED TO
MOTHER'S DAY AND IS A WEEKEND
OF STRAPPING, SHOPPING,
STROLLING SPRINGTIME FUN.
A LOT OF THE BUSINESSES
DOWNTOWN HAVE DONE REALLY ABOVE
AND BEYOND TO MAKE THEIR
STOREFRONTS FESTIVE AND
INVITING AND REFLECTIVE
OF SPRING BRIGHT COLORS.
I KNOW AT THE INTROVERT CENTER
I WALKED DOWNSTAIRS THE OTHER
DAY TO WATCH MY TEAM WATCHING
YOUTUBE VIDEOS ON HOW TO MAKE
GIGANTIC PAPER FLOWERS WHICH
ADORN OUR WALLS SO THE BUSINESS
IS DOWNTOWN.
TAKE GREAT PRIDE IN CREATING
EXPERIENCES FOR OUR COMMUNITY
IN THIS EVENT.
WELL CERTAINLY I THINK LIVE UP
TO THAT REPUTATION.
SO THIS BEGAN TO BLOOM FIRST
DOWNTOWN AND THERE'S ALSO A
SCAVENGER OUT WITH PRIZES IF
YOU HAPPEN TO VISIT VARIOUS
LOCATIONS AND I JUST I HOPE
EVERYONE WILL TAKE THE TIME TO
SUPPORT OUR SMALL BUSINESS
COMMUNITY.
>> AS ALWAYS, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
ON BEHALF OF THE MAYOR, I WOULD
LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
REAPPOINTMENT FOR CONSIDERATION
AT OUR NEXT MEETING AND PLEASE
BEAR WITH ME.
IT IS LENGTHY TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE THE MELONIE
MCNICHOLAS AND FREDERICK M.
HALL TO THE URBAN AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY BOARD
MIKE ALARMING TO THE NO PUBLIC
ART COMMISSION.
PEGGY, WE'RE LONARD TO THE
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
ROBERT HART, HUGH FLAC JR. AND
DAVID BERNSTORFF TO A CABLE
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
ZACHARY DAYMAN TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION ONE WILLIE
SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT AND ELLIOTT
ABRAMS TO THE COMMISSION AND
DISABILITY ISSUES KATHLEEN AND
MOSADDEQ LARRY D. KEELER AND
ALEX GOSSAGE TO THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD.
WENDY L. RAMSDEN TO THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
TRESSA NICHOLS ANGELA L.
JACKSON AND ELIZABETH BERRY TO
THE ELIZABETH DEAN FUND
COMMITTEE.
LYNNE M. NOBLE BROOKS A CURTIS
AND SAMUEL ROSE WAKE TO THE
EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MARK MARK AND
FOSTER TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION
MIKE BERKOWITZ TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION DAVID
ROCKLYN AND CATHERINE FORTNER
TO THE HOUSING COURT OF APPEALS
JERRY SHORTIE AND TIM DURHAM TO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
LINDA WINKLER A.G. LANE AND
KITA COLLIN TO THE KAREN RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
RICHARD NORTON TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
TISHA MONTAGUE TO THE
RECREATION ADVISORY COMMISSION
AND AKARI TO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION.
KRISSIE BODY ROSNY RADCLYFFE
AND KIMBERLY PITTS' TO THE
TRANSPORT COMMISSION ONE WOOLIE
AND BRETT TOMOKI TO THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS PATRICIA
LASKOWSKI AND TODD GRANT.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE
ANNENBERG PUBLIC ARTS
COMMISSION JOHN CATARRH SKI TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AREA
RESIDENT CONSULTANCY COUNSEL
JULIAN MAZE BERNET AND TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION DEVIN
KILPATRICK WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
REAPPOINTMENT OF NON REGISTERED
LECTORS FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
AT THE NEXT MEETING TO THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD JEFFREY
PERKINS TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION KALEEN COLVIN GARCA
AND TO THE HURON RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL MOLLET
MASSACHUSETTS.
AND FINALLY I WOULD LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATION OF A NON REGISTERED
ELECTOR FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
AT THE NEXT MEETING TO THE ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC ART COMMISSION.
>> SARAH FULLER
.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
CONSENT AGENDA DO HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA
COUNTERMOVES MY COUNCIL MEMBER
IGHER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
OF MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA AND I
WOULD ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
POSTPONE SEE A NINE 11 AND 12
TO OUR MAIN 12 OR MAY 19TH
MEETING.
WE HAVE TO PUT MY APOLOGIES.
WE'LL NEED TO PULL THOSE AND
THEN VOTE TO POSTPONE COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS
SO I WOULD MOVE
TO PULL C NINE SEET ELEVEN AND
TWELVE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE CONCENTRA AGENDA?
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF A NINE ELEVEN AND
C TWELVE PLEASE SAY I OPPOSE IT
IS PAST K NINE THE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE MARIJUANA EXCISE
TAX REBATE GRANT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND THE HOME OF NEW AND HOME
OF NEW VISION AND APPROPRIATE
FUNDING MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL COUNCIL MEMBER
REX LIKE TO STATE HOW
SUPPORTIVE I AM TO THIS
UNFORTUNATE THAT IT'S NECESSARY
FOR US TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
FUNDING IN THE AFTER SEEING THE
LOSS OF FEDERAL FUNDING IN THIS
AREA.
BUT GLAD THAT WE ARE DEDICATING
THAT.
>> BUT I MOVE TO POSTPONE THIS
TO OUR NEXT MEETING.
IS THERE A SECOND COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON?
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
ANY OPPOSED IT IS POSTPONED A
ELEVEN YEAR RESOLUTION TO
ACCEPT A SANITARY SEWER
EASEMENT AT FOURTEEN HUNDRED
SOUTH MAPLE ROAD FROM MIDTOWN
ANN ARBOR LLC MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH COUNCIL
MEMBER REX MOVED TO POSTPONE
THIS TO OUR NEXT MEETING SO
THEIR SECOND COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK ANY DISCUSSION
OF POSTPONEMENT, ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR I ANY OPPOSED IT IS
POSTPONED K TWELVE A RESOLUTION
TO ACCEPT A WATER MAIN EASEMENT
AT FOURTEEN HUNDRED SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD FROM MIDTOWN ANN ARBOR LLC
RECEIVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON COUNCIL MEMBER RIGGS.
>> I MOVE TO POSTPONE THIS FOR
OUR NEXT MEETING ARE SECOND
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK ANY
DISCUSSION OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF POSTPONEMENT I AND YOUR POST
IT IS POSTPONED.
THANK YOU.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SERIES
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO THE
CITY COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO
SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BUT YOUR COMMENTS MUST
RELATE TO THE TOPIC OF THE
HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME CLOCK.
OUR CLERK SPEAKERS FROM THIRTY
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING TODAY
IS PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CHAPTER
NINETY THREE ALARM SYSTEMS
OF TITLE SEVEN OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OF THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING ON YOUR PROGRAM?
I DON'T SEE ANYONE ONLINE FOR
THIS HEARING
SEEING NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE SECTION
TWO SIXTY THREE OF CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE WATER RATES
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS ANYONE IN
HOUSE THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THE PUBLIC HEARING
MARCUS
GARVEY THE TWENTY SEVENTEEN
VERSTRAETE I KNOW PEOPLE DON'T
LIKE THEIR UTILITY BILLS GOING
UP BUT I THINK THIS IS A
NECESSARY THING AND ARBOR'S GOT
PRETTY GOOD INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TAKES CARE OF ITS
INFRASTRUCTURE AND LIKE A LOT
OF OTHER CITIES AND ONE OTHER
WAY TO REDUCE OUR TAX BURDEN
AND GET BETTER UTILITIES FOR A
LOWER COST IS BY HAVING HIGHER
DENSITY.
I'LL KEEP ON THAT FOR WELL
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYONE ELSE IN THE HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING, SIR?
ANYONE ONLINE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
MAYOR PRO TEM I DON'T SEE
ANYONE ONLINE FOR THIS HEARING
SEEING NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSE
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER THREE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION TWO
SIXTY NINE OF CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE STORM WATER RATES OF TITLE
TWO OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
SO ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
WE DO HAVE ONE CALLER, ALEX
LOWE BRUSSTAR SIX.
>> GO AHEAD.
I HAVE ALEX LOCAL AND FROM WARD
THREE WHAT WOULD REALLY HELP
WITH WITH US NOT HAVING TO
FURTHER INCREASE OUR STORMWATER
RATES WOULD BE IF WE ALLOW MORE
DENSITY, ESPECIALLY VERTICAL
DENSITY SINCE I WOULD HAVE MORE
MORE PEOPLE SHARING THESE
STORMWATER RATES IN THE SAME
AMOUNT OF ENCOMIA LAND.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> MAYOR PRO TEM.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON LINE SEEING NO ONE.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO FOR AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION TWO
SIXTY FOUR OF CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE SEWER RATES OF TITLE TWO
OF THE CODE THE CITY OF AMERICA
.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THIS HEARING.
THANK YOU.
SEE NO THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
FIVE A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE ENTIRE
FIRE DEPARTMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
THERE?
ANYONE ONLINE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANYONE ONLINE FOR
THIS HEARING SEEING NO ONE THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER SIX A RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE INTERIOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE FOR THIS HEARING SAYING NO
ONE THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
SEVEN A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
THE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY
SIX FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE
PUBLIC WORK OR PUBLIC SERVICES
AREA ENGINEERING SYSTEMS
PLANNING PUBLIC WORKS WATER
TREATMENT UNITS AND THE AND THE
FLEET AND FACILITIES AIRPORT
UNIT OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING AND FOR A TIME I
DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THIS HEARING SEE NO ONE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER EIGHT
IRRESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE
COMMUNITY SERVICES AREA.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THIS HEARING SEEING NO ONE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER NINE
IRRESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE NO
CITY BUDGET AND RELATED
PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
HELLO ADAM GOODMAN.
I'M A RESIDENT OF FORTY FIVE
AND I AM HERE TONIGHT TO
PRESENT THE NAMES OF AROUND
THREE HUNDRED PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SIGNED A PETITION CALLING FOR
SAFETY FOR STADIUM NOW SPECIFIC
THIS PETITION CALLS FOR YOU TO
INCLUDE IN THIS BUDGET FUNDS TO
URGENTLY RECONFIGURE IT
COLLOQUIALLY SAY ROAD DIET ALL
THE REMAINING MULTIPLE LANE
SECTIONS OF STADIUM AND MAPLE
AS A TWO YEAR QUICK BUILD PILOT
PROJECT.
I HAVE A PRINTED COPY HERE.
SHOULD I HAND IT TO THE CLERK
?
SO I SPOKE TO A MONTH AGO ABOUT
ENORMOUS FAILURE TO ACHIEVE ITS
TEN YEAR VISION ZERO GOAL AND
THE NEED TO URGENTLY ADDRESS
THIS AND MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVELY
THAN WE HAVE THEM SO I WANT TO
ADDRESS WHAT IS CURRENTLY IN
THE PROPOSED BUDGET THAT'S
BEFORE YOU.
SO FIRST OF ALL, I REALLY DO
APPRECIATE THAT MR. TONY DID
FRAME ROAD SAFETY AS A PUBLIC
SAFETY ISSUE.
THAT IS CORRECT.
AND THERE ARE SOME CAPITAL
PROJECTS THAT WILL MAKE A
POSITIVE DIFFERENCE FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
I WOULD MENTION AS EXAMPLES THE
BIKEWAY IN THE NIXON CORRIDOR
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT.
BUT WHAT IS BUDGET FAILS TO DO
WITH ANY URGENCY IS TO ADDRESS
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT SOURCES
OF SERIOUS AND FATAL CRASHES IN
OUR CITY THAT IS OUR MULTI LANE
ROADS.
OUR UNWILLINGNESS TO
AGGRESSIVELY TAKE ON THESE
SORTS OF PROBLEMS IS EXACTLY
WHY WE'VE FAILED TO MEET OUR
GOAL OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
THIS BUDGET ACTUALLY DOES SHOW
A LINE ITEM FOR THE SORT
OF THING THAT WE ARE ASKING FOR
QUICK BUILD SAFETY PROJECTS.
WHAT'S THE FUNDING PROPOSED FOR
THAT LINE ITEM ZERO ZERO
DOLLARS NOW TO BE FAIR, THIS IS
PROBABLY IN PART BECAUSE THE
CITY WAS RELYING ON US SAFE
STREETS FOR ALL GRANT FROM THE
FEDS TO FUND THIS SORT OF WORK.
BUT THERE ARE A COUPLE PROBLEMS
WITH THAT.
FIRST, THE RESTRICTIONS IN
GRANTS AND OTHER FEDERAL
REGULATIONS MEANT THAT THE CITY
WOULD HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO USE
THAT FUNDING TO DO ANYTHING
OTHER THAN THE MOST MINOR AND
INCREMENTAL WORK.
STAFF WERE CLEAR THAT THAT
MONEY COULD NOT BE USED FOR ANY
SIGNIFICANT ROAD
RECONFIGURATION BECAUSE THAT
WOULD TRIGGER A FEDERALLY
MANDATED ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT.
BUT SECOND AND MORE URGENTLY,
AS THE MAYOR ANNOUNCED A MONTH
AGO, THOSE FUNDS HAVE NOW
EFFECTIVELY BEEN FROZEN BY THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION.
SO COUNCIL MEMBERS YOU DIDN'T
SET ASIDE FUNDING FOR EXACTLY
THIS TYPE OF SITUATION AND NOW
IT'S URGENT THAT YOU DO
APPROPRIATE SOME LOCAL FUNDS
FOR SOME QUICK BUILD SAFETY
PROJECTS LIKE RECONFIGURING
STADIUM.
ONE TINY SILVER LINING TO A
VERY LARGE CLOUD IS THAT LOCAL
FUNDS DON'T COME WITH ALL THESE
STRINGS ATTACHED.
WE CAN DO THE WORK THAT'S
ACTUALLY NECESSARY TO MAKE OUR
ROADS SAFE WHEN WE'RE NOT WHEN
WE'RE SPENDING LOCAL LOCAL
MONEY.
SO I HOPE YOU WILL BRING
FORWARD AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORT
THEM AT THE NEXT MEETING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS JESSE AVERIL AND
I'M WITH THE HOUSING ALLIANCE.
THE I WOULD LIKE TO THANK CITY
COUNCIL FOR FUNDING THE RISING
HOPE PROGRAM THESE PAST TWO
YEARS.
>> I THINK I THINK YOU MIGHT
COME TO THE MICROPHONE DID I
TURN IT OFF?
>> THIS IS THE GREEN LIGHT ON.
OH I WAS TRYING TO BE MINDFUL
OF IT.
THERE SHOULD BE A BUTTON AT THE
BASE.
THAT'S THE TIMER THERE ARE GUYS
JUST TRYING THIS CAN YOU KNOW
WE'LL GIVE YOU YOUR TIME BACK
.
>> I WANT
YOU NEED TO GET LIKE
A HIGHER SECTION
WORTH
KNOW THE
LIGHT IS ON WORKS
.
>> OH IT'S NOT OURS ARE STILL
VERY, VERY LIGHT UP AT LEAST
IT
JUST FROM BE RECORDED
AT
ALL.
RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW IF FOLKS CAN HEAR
ME BUT WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A
BRIEF FIVE MINUTE BREAK TO
ALLOW THE SYSTEM TO REBOOT
THOSE OF YOU ON CONSOLES TAKING
A FIVE MINUTE BREAK
.
I'M GOING TO CALL COUNCIL BACK
INTO SESSION HERE.
WE WILL I THINK WITH ALL OF OUR
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES RESOLVED
CONTINUE WITH OUR PUBLIC
HEARING THE RESOLUTION TO ADOPT
THE UNIVERSITY BUDGET AND
RELATED PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
AND WE WILL RESTART YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
HELLO AGAIN.
MY NAME IS JESSE ABEL AND I'M
THE WASHTENAW HOUSING ALLIANCE.
THE I WOULD LIKE TO THANK CITY
COUNCIL FOR FUNDING THE RISING
HOPE PROGRAM RAISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM THESE PAST TWO
YEARS THROUGH THE MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX REBATE RISING HOPE
IS A COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE
HOUSING COMMISSION, A BREAKAWAY
CATHOLIC CHARITIES SHELTER
ASSOCIATION OF WASHINGTON
COUNTY AS WAS COMMUNITY
SERVICES IN WASHINGTON HOUSING
ALLIANCE.
IN ADDITION, WE HAVE GROWN
CLOSE REFERRAL COORDINATION
WITH COMMUNITY PARTNERS AT THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY JAIL REENTRY
PROGRAM.
THE SHERIFF'S OUTREACH TEAM
LEGAL SERVICES ASSASSINATOR
MICHIGAN HOUSING ACCESS FOR
WASHTENAW COUNTY ALSO KNOWN AS
HAUK AVALON HOUSING MICHIGAN
ABILITY PARTNERS WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH AND
MORE RECENTLY WHEN NEUTRAL ZONE
AND THEIR WORK WITH COURT
INVOLVED YOUTH AND LIFE AFTER
INCARCERATION, TRANSITION AND
REENTRY WHICH NEEDS A LIFE
SUPPORT SKILLS COMMUNITY GROUP
IN THE JAIL.
WE ARE AWARE THAT WHEN SOMEONE
HAS A CRIMINAL RECORD THEY
OFTEN EXPERIENCE HOUSING
DISCRIMINATION AND FIND IT
DIFFICULT TO SECURE HOUSING AND
AT TIMES MAINTAIN THEIR HOUSING
BY PROVIDING TRAUMA INFORMED
SUPPORT RESOURCE NAVIGATION AND
EMERGENCY FUNDING.
WE HAVE ASSISTED A TOTAL OF ONE
HUNDRED SEVENTY ONE HOUSEHOLDS
TO MAINTAIN THEIR HOUSING AND
VOUCHERS, LOCATE HOUSING, FIND
EMPLOYMENT AND EVEN REPAIR A
CAR TO MAINTAIN APPOINTMENTS
FOR THEIR MENTAL HEALTH.
SINCE THE START OF THE PILOT
THROUGH MARCH OF THIS YEAR,
OVER 40 PERCENT OF PROGRAM
SERVICES HAVE BEEN PROVIDED TO
HOUSEHOLDS TO SECURE AND LEASE
UP WITH THEIR VOUCHERS BY
PAYING APPLICATION FEES,
ADMINISTRATIVE AND HOLDING FEES
AS WELL AS SECURITY DEPOSITS
OF OVER 40 PERCENT OF SERVICES
HAVE ALSO BEEN PROVIDED TO
HOUSEHOLDS TO CLEAR RENTAL
ARREARS AND OTHER DEBTS TO
PREVENT POSSIBLE EVICTION AND
NEARLY 20 PERCENT OF SERVICES
PROVIDED HAVE BEEN FOR UTILITY
ASSISTANCE TO PREVENT HOUSEHOLD
UTILITY SHUTOFFS.
THE RISING HOME PROGRAM
CURRENTLY HAS DISTRIBUTED OVER
TWO HUNDRED THIRTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS OF DIRECT
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT
PARTICIPANT HOUSEHOLDS IN
MAINTAINING THEIR VOUCHERS,
SECURING HOUSING AND
MAINTAINING THEIR HOUSING.
WE KNOW THAT BEING ABLE TO KEEP
PEOPLE STABLY HOUSED HAS A
POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE
INDIVIDUAL FAMILY AND THE
COMMUNITY.
BEING ABLE TO MAINTAIN THEIR
VOUCHER IS CRITICAL TO THE
STABILITY AND THE RISING HOPE
PROGRAM HELPS INDIVIDUALS AND
FAMILIES REMAIN IN THEIR HOMES
BY PROVIDING CRITICAL SERVICES
WHEN THEY HAVE A SETBACK.
I ASK THAT YOU PROVIDE FULL
FUNDING TO THIS PROGRAM FOR A
THIRD YEAR SO WE CAN CONTINUE
TO SERVE MORE JUST AS IMPACTED
HOUSEHOLDS IN OUR COUNTY AND
INSISTS AND ASSIST HOUSEHOLDS
TO PRESERVE THEIR VOUCHERS AND
INCREASE THEIR HOUSING
STABILITY.
THANK THANK YOU
OVER AGAIN AND
THIS TIME I'LL DESCRIBE MY HOME
ADDRESS AS BEING WITHIN A
QUARTER MILE OF THE
INTERSECTION STADIUM WHERE
SOMEBODY DIED TWO YEARS AGO.
IT'S OUR SECTION WHERE OTHER
CYCLISTS HAVE BEEN HIT AND ALL
ALONG THE STADIUM THERE ARE
TONS OF CRASHES.
WE HAVE THE DATA THAT'S ON THE
ENTIRE WEBSITE.
I CROSS STADIUM EVERY SINGLE
DAY I WON FAIR STREET.
THERE'S LOTS OF SHOPPING.
I ALSO TRAVEL ON STADIUM MY
BIKE ALL THE TIME AND MOST
TIMES THAT I CROSS IN BETWEEN
LOOKING BOTH WAYS, TRYING TO
SPRINT ACROSS THINKING ABOUT
THE CARS THAT ARE TRAVELING AT
FORTY FIVE OR FIFTY MILES AN
HOUR I THINK ABOUT ONE MY
PHYSICAL ABILITY TO RUN ACROSS
THE STREET QUICKLY AND IN
BETWEEN A SHORT BREAK AND
TRAFFIC AND I THINK ABOUT THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN HIT HURT
SERIOUSLY HURT OR KILLED.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW ELSE TO SAY
PEOPLE ARE DYING ON OUR STREETS
AND I SIGNED THE PETITION
SAFETY FOR STADIUM NOW TO ASK
THAT WE SPEND MONEY TO FIX IT.
WE DON'T NEED TO SPEND A LOT
OF MONEY TO DO A QUICK BUILD
PROGRAM AND DEMONSTRATE THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF ROAD DIETING,
MULTI LANE ROADS.
FRANKLY THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
DOESN'T REALLY NEED TO BE
STUDIED.
IT'S ALREADY BEEN STUDIED
EXTENSIVELY.
WE KNOW THAT AROUND THE COUNTRY
MULTI LANE ROADS ARE THE MOST
DANGEROUS ROADS BUT FOR THE
SAKE OF AT LEAST DOING A QUICK
BUILD AND PROVING THAT TO
OURSELVES, I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT WE ALLOCATE MONEY AS
MR. GOODMAN POINTED OUT THAT
NOW THAT WE DON'T HAVE ACCESS
TO THE FEDERAL MONEY WHICH IS A
LOSS, IT ALSO MEANS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE TO FOLLOW ALL OF THE
FEDERAL GUIDELINES FOR HOW WE
SPEND THAT MONEY.
WE DON'T NEED TO COME UP WITH
YET ANOTHER PLAN OR SPEND MORE
MONEY ON CONSULTANTS TO COME UP
WITH YET ANOTHER PLAN.
WE CAN JUST DO THE THINGS THAT
WE KNOW PROTECT PEOPLE AND SAVE
LIVES.
SO I REALLY HOPE THAT YOU AMEND
THE BUDGET, PROVIDE SOME
FUNDING FOR AT THE VERY LEAST A
QUICK BUILD ON STADIUM AND I
HOPE IN YEARS TO COME WE
PROVIDE THE BUDGET TO RODAY AT
OTHER MULTI-LINE ROADS IN THE
CITY AS CITY COUNCIL ASKED FOR
THIS PAST YEAR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
MY NAME IS ELIZABETH THINK I'M
A HOUSE COORDINATOR AT
SOUTHWEST COMMUNITY SERVICES
WHERE I HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF AMONG OTHER THINGS BEING THE
CASE MANAGER FOR THE RISING
HOPE FOR HOUSING PROGRAM.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR COMMITMENT TO SERVING OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS, ESPECIALLY
THOSE EXPERIENCING OR AT A HIGH
RISK OF BECOMING HOMELESS.
AND I'D LIKE TO ENCOURAGE YOU
TO RENEW AND FULLY FUND THE
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING PROGRAM
FOR A THIRD YEAR SO THAT WE MAY
SERVE MORE HOUSEHOLDS.
WE KNOW THAT FINDING AND
MAINTAINING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IN THE
WIDER WASHTENAW COUNTY AREA HAS
BECOME INCREDIBLY HARD AND WE
FIND IT IS EVEN HARDER FOR
HOUSEHOLDS THAT HAVE BEEN
JUSTICE IMPACTED.
HOUSING VOUCHERS AND SIMILAR
PROGRAMS ARE PROVEN TOOLS WHEN
IT COMES TO HOUSING STABILITY
AND EQUALITY HELPING
HOUSEHOLDS, HELPING THE
HOUSEHOLDS WE WORK WITH UTILIZE
OR MAINTAIN THEIR VOUCHERS IS A
VITAL STEP IN KEEPING THEM
HOUSED.
THE FLEXIBILITY OF RISING HOPE
PROGRAM MEANS THAT WE ARE ABLE
TO TAKE A HOLISTIC TRAUMA
INFORMED APPROACH WHEN WE WORK
WITH CLIENTS OFFERING THEM MORE
THAN JUST MONETARY SOLUTIONS.
YES, CLIENTS DO NEED DIRECT
ASSISTANCE DOLLARS BUT THEY
ALSO NEED SOMEONE TO HELP THEM
FILL OUT PAPERWORK OR
UNDERSTAND A LETTER FROM THEIR
LANDLORD OR VOUCHER PROVIDER.
THEY NEED HELP NAVIGATING
HOUSING OPTIONS AND
APPLICATIONS AND THROUGH
PARTNERS LIKE A AWAY THEY CAN
WORK ON CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND
PARTICIPATE IN PEER TO PEER
SUPPORT PROGRAMS AND THROUGH
OUR WORK AND ADVOCACY WE ARE
ABLE TO CHANGE THE STIGMA
AROUND RENTING TO SOMEONE WITH
A CRIMINAL BACKGROUND IN A WAY
THAT I HOPE
WILL MEAN THAT ONE
DAY JUST AS IN PAST JUSTICE
IMPACTED HOUSEHOLDS WILL NOT BE
STARTING A STEP OR TWO OR TEN
BEHIND EVERYONE ELSE IN THE
RENTAL MARKET.
AN EXAMPLE OF HOW THE HOUSING
PROGRAM HAS HELPED CLIENTS
RECENTLY I WAS ABLE TO WORK
WITH A CLIENT THAT HAD
SUCCESSFULLY PARTICIPATED IN
THE WASHTENAW COUNTY SHERIFF'S
DEPARTMENT REENTRY PROGRAM AND
DURING THE SIX MONTH PROGRAM
I'VE BEEN SELECTED FOR A
VOUCHER ONE OF THE VERY FEW
GIVEN OUT OVER THE LAST TWENTY
FOUR MONTHS BY MR. WHEN HE HAD
BEEN APPROVED WHILE HE HAD BEEN
APPROVED FOR WITH MR. FOR THE
VOUCHER HE WAS HAVING ISSUES
PLACING HIS VOUCHER WITH HIS
CURRENT LANDLORD.
HE WAS TO REMAIN IN HIS HOME
BUT HE WAS HAVING A HARD TIME
COMMUNICATING WITH THEM TO
COMPLETE THE PAPERWORK AND HIS
AND EVEN AFTER HIS APARTMENT
WAS APPROVED HE IS FACING AN
ISSUE WITH THEM NOT BEING
WILLING TO WRITE A NEW LEASE TO
MEET THE MR. REQUIREMENTS AT
THE CLIENT'S REQUEST I WAS ABLE
TO ATTEND COURT WITH HIM ON
THIS MATTER AND IN THIS CASE
THE JUDGE POINTED THE
LANDLORD'S ATTORNEY TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR ORDINANCE ABOUT
VOUCHERS AND ALLOWED A TWO WEEK
ADJOURNMENT SO HE COULD
FAMILIARIZE HIMSELF WITH THAT
ORDINANCE.
AS A RESULT, THEY DID AGREE TO
COMPLETE THE NEW LEASE AND
THEY'VE CHANGED THEIR POLICY
REGARDING LEASES TO HOLDERS
MOVING FORWARD RAISING HOPE
FUNDS WERE ALSO ABLE TO BE A
STOPGAP IN THIS CASE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING, COUNSEL.
I'M SPEAKING ALSO IN SUPPORT
OF ALLOCATING FUNDS FOR THE
STADIUM BOULEVARD'S SAFETY
PILOT.
THIS BODY HAS AN ONGOING
COMMITMENT TO VISION ZERO.
I KNOW THIS PHRASE GETS THROWN
AROUND A LOT BUT TO CLARIFY
VISION ZERO THE TRAFFIC SAFETY
FRAMEWORK THAT AIMS TO
ELIMINATE ALL TRAFFIC
FATALITIES AND SERIOUS INJURIES
BY ONE RECOGNIZING THAT ALL
HUMANS MAKE MISTAKES AND TO
DESIGNING STREETS TO ENSURE
THOSE MISTAKES ARE NOT DEADLY,
A CORE PRINCIPLE IS THAT
WHEREVER CARS AND PEOPLE NOT IN
CARS INTERACT, SPEEDS MUST BE
LOW ENOUGH THAT INEVITABLE
HUMAN ERRORS DO NOT RESULT IN
SEVERE INJURY OR DEATH.
THIS REQUIRES A SHIFT IN ROAD
DESIGN, POLICY AND ENFORCEMENT
TO PRIORITIZE SAFETY OVER
VEHICLE SPEED AND THROUGHPUT.
THE BEST PART OF VISION ZERO IS
THAT IT WORKS NOT JUST ON
DOZENS OF LARGER CITIES IN
EUROPE BUT IN PLACES LIKE
HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY THAT
AVOIDED ROAD DEATHS FOR SEVEN
YEARS IN A ROW.
WE CAN AND MUST DO THIS HERE.
THIS BODY HAS REACTED QUICKLY
TO EMERGENCIES SUCH AS THE
HEALTHY STREETS INITIATIVE
DURING COVID WHERE WE CLOSE UP
LANES FOR RECREATION BECAUSE WE
DIDN'T KNOW IF OUTDOOR
TRANSMISSION WAS POSSIBLE.
WE REPAINTED THE LINES IN A
MATTER OF WEEKS AND SHIFTED
TRAFFIC PATTERNS.
WELL IT TURNED OUT THAT OUTDOOR
TRANSMISSION WAS NOT A MAJOR
FACTOR.
WE KNOW WE DO HAVE AN ONGOING
EMERGENCY HAPPENING RIGHT
BEFORE OUR EYES.
WE PREVENTABLE DEATHS AND
SERIOUS INJURIES HAPPENING
EVERY YEAR ON CITY OWNED ROADS.
THIS IS COMPLETELY UNACCEPTABLE
AND NOT EXPENSIVE TO FIX.
THERE IS NO REASON WE CANNOT
ACCELERATE TECHNIQUES LIKE ROAD
DEATHS, ROUNDABOUTS AND
PROTECTED BIKE LANES THAT HAVE
BEEN PROVEN TO WORK TIME AFTER
TIME NATIONALLY AND HERE IN ANN
ARBOR WHEN WE RESURFACE ROADS
WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED SUCCESSFUL
SAFETY COUNTER COUNTERMEASURES
ON ROADS LIKE SOUTH MAIN PLATT
AND EHRHART AND THE OUTCOMES
ARE DRAMATIC IN TERMS OF SLOWER
SPEEDS AND FEWER CRASHES.
BUT WE CANNOT WAIT FOR ROADS TO
BE RESURFACED TO TACKLE THE
MOST DANGEROUS ROADS UNDER CITY
OWNERSHIP WE NEED TO DEVELOP A
STAFF ABILITY TO TO DO QUICK
BUILDS AND ITERATE YEAR AFTER
YEAR PAINT AND FLEX POSE SAVE
LIVES ON AN ALMOST DAILY BASIS.
>> I WATCH PEOPLE EVEN FAMILIES
CONTINUE CROSSING MIDLAKE AT A
MARKET WHERE THE MOST RECENT
TRAGEDY OCCURRED.
I HEAR SIMILAR STORIES ABOUT
STUDENTS CROSSING A STADIUM TO
GO TO PIONEER AND TAPAN PLEASE
DO NOT WAIT UNTIL THE NEXT
TRAGEDY.
PLEASE START BY ALLOCATING
FUNDING TO DO THIS FOR STADIUM
AT A MINIMUM.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MATTHEW OSTROSKY TWO NINE FOUR
BARBAGALLO I WANT TO REFACED
THIS BY SAYING THAT I AM
SOMEONE WHO WAS INVOLVED IN A
SERIOUS ACCIDENT ON MY BIKE
INVOLVING AN SUV AND I'M
PERMANENTLY INJURED MY RIGHT
SHOULDER DISLOCATED SO AND I'M
ALSO SPEAKING ON THE STADIUM
PETITION IN SUPPORT OF IT.
SO AGAIN I LIVE OVER BY THE
MALLETS CREEK LIBRARY AND I'M
HERE ON BEHALF OF OVER THREE
HUNDRED RESIDENTS INCLUDING
MYSELF WHO HAVE SIGNED A
PETITION ASKING YOU TO SUPPORT
A SAFER, MORE EQUITABLE STADIUM
FOR EVERYONE.
>> STADIUM IS CURRENTLY A
DANGEROUS CORRIDOR.
IT'S DESIGNED FOR SPEED NOT
SAFETY AND IT PUTS PEOPLE
WALKING, BIKING, USING TRANSIT
OR EVEN DRIVING AT RISK.
>> WE ARE PROPOSING A SIMPLE
LOW COST BUILD PILOT REDUCING
IT TO TWO TRAVEL LANES THE
CENTER TURN LANE AND ADDED
PROJECTED BIKE LANES USING
PAINT AND HOST.
THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT CYCLIST
IRIG.
WE SEE FAMILIES BIKING WITH
THEIR KIDS, MANY IN CARGO BIKES
TRYING TO SHARE A STREET THAT
WASN'T DESIGNED FOR THEM.
THEY DESERVE TO GET HOME SAFELY
JUST LIKE DRIVERS DO RIGHT NOW
THEY'RE PUT IN DANGER BY
OUTDATED INFRASTRUCTURE.
SLOWER SPEEDS REDUCE CRASH
SEVERITY FOR EVERYONE INCLUDING
DRIVERS.
JUST LOOK AT THE HIGHWAY
CRASHES SPEED KILLS.
THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY
ADMINISTRATION REPORTS THAT
ROAD DIETS LIKE THIS REDUCE
CRASHES UP TO FORTY SEVEN
PERCENT THAT SAVES LIVES
INCLUDING CHILDREN, PARENTS AND
OUR NEIGHBORS.
>> THIS PROPOSAL DIRECTLY
SUPPORTS YOUR VISION ZERO
COMMITMENT, YOUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND CLIMATE GOALS.
IF THE CITY WON'T ACT ON A
COMMUNITY SPONSORED LOW COST
SAFETY SOLUTION LIKE THIS THEN
WE HAVE TO ASK WHAT ARE THOSE
POLICIES REALLY WORTH?
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR MILLIONS
JUST PAINT POST AND POLITICAL.
WELL LET'S SHOW THE NRA IS
SERIOUS ABOUT BUILDING SAFE
STREETS FOR EVERYONE.
PLEASE SUPPORT THIS PILOT AND
STADIUM FORWARD AND WITH QUOTE
IF YOU CAN INVEST IN LIFE
SAVING SAFETY FOR A FEW
THOUSAND DOLLARS, WHAT DOES
THAT SAY ABOUT YOUR PRIORITIES
?
>> WE'RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER.
THANK YOU.
THANK
HELLO.
MY NAME IS ACTUALLY HATFIELD.
I'M WITH CATHOLIC CHARITIES,
THE OFFENDER SUCCESS PROGRAM.
I'M PROUD TO SERVE AS A CASE
MANAGER FOR THE RISING HELP FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM RENEWING AND
FULLY FUNDING THE RISING HOPE
FOR THIRD YEAR IS ESSENTIAL TO
EXPANDING OUR ABILITY TO SERVE
MORE HOUSEHOLDS.
THE DEMAND FOR THESE SERVICES
REMAINS SIGNIFICANT AND THE
NEED WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY IS
ONGOING.
THE RISING HOPE PROGRAM WAS
CREATED TO SUPPORT JUSTICE
IMPACTED INDIVIDUALS AND
FAMILIES IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
WHO HOLD HOUSING CHOICE
VOUCHERS.
IT PROVIDES ESSENTIAL SERVICES
LIKE EVICTION PREVENTION
SUPPORT WITH NEW HOUSING
PLACEMENT AND TRAUMA INFORMED
CASE MANAGEMENT TO HELP
HOUSEHOLDS STAY STABLY HOUSED
AND WORK TOWARD LONG TERM
SELF-SUFFICIENCY.
AT ITS CORE, THE RISING HOPE
PROGRAM IS ABOUT CONTINUING THE
IMPORTANT WORK OF ADVANCING
FAIRNESS IN ACCESS AND HOUSING
BY ENTERING JUSTICE IMPACT
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES, THE
PROGRAM IS INTENTIONALLY
FOCUSED ON THOSE WHO FACE SOME
OF THE GREATEST BARRIERS TO
STABLE HOUSING.
THESE ARE INDIVIDUALS WHO OFTEN
FALL THROUGH THE CRACKS OF THE
RISING HOPE HELPS ENSURE THAT
THEY ARE NOT LEFT BEHIND
THROUGH MY WORK WITH THIS
PROGRAM I'VE SEEN FIRSTHAND THE
MEANINGFUL IMPACT IT HAS ON
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES.
RECENTLY I RECEIVED A TEXT
MESSAGE FROM A WOMAN WE HELPED
MOVE INTO SAFE AND STABLE
HOUSING, SHE WROTE I CANNOT
TELL YOU HOW MUCH I APPRECIATE
YOUR HELP WITH MOVING.
I FEEL SO MUCH SAFER KNOWING WE
DON'T HAVE TO LOOK OUT OUR
WINDOWS ANYMORE.
I CAN'T THANK YOU ENOUGH.
I'LL ADMIT EMOTIONALLY READING
THAT MESSAGE IT WAS A POWERFUL
REMINDER OF WHY THIS PROGRAM
EXISTS AND HOW MUCH IT MATTERS
.
IT'S ENCOURAGED.
I'M INCREDIBLY PROUD TO BE PART
OF THE RISING HOPE IN THIS
PROGRAM AND THIS EXPERIENCE
REAFFIRMED JUST HOW VITAL THIS
PROGRAM IS NOT ONLY FOR THOSE
WE SERVE DIRECTLY BUT FOR THE
STRENGTH AND STABILITY OF OUR
BROADER COMMUNITY.
AS THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
PREPARES TO ADOPT UPCOMING
BUDGET, I URGE YOU TO CONTINUE
INVESTING IN THIS WORK.
LET'S RENEW AND FULLY FUND
RISING HOPE FOR A THIRD YEAR.
LET'S CONTINUE CENTERING THOSE
MOST IMPACTED BY THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
LET'S PROTECT HOUSING CHOICE
WATER RETENTION AND LET'S
PRESERVE THE FLEXIBILITY THAT
MAKES THIS PROGRAM SO
EFFECTIVE.
>> THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
KATHY GRISWOLD AS A COUNCIL
MEMBER WE PASSED A
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT WAS
BASED ON THE ZERO AT THE TIME I
SAID OUR PLAN BASTARDIZE VISION
ZERO AND EVERYONE LOOKED AT ME
LIKE HOW COULD I SAY THAT?
BUT NOW A FEW YEARS LATER AND
MANY DEATHS AND MANY SERIOUS
INJURIES LATER I THINK WE CAN
AGREE THAT WE HAVE A PROBLEM
AND WHAT WE'RE DOING IS NOT
WORKING.
WE HEARD TONIGHT SO WHILE I'M
SUPPOSED TO BE TALKING ABOUT
THE BUDGET SO I'LL SWITCH OVER
TO THAT.
AND THIS BUDGET HAS MANY
CRITICAL UNMET NEEDS IN TERMS
OF TRANSPORTATION SAFETY.
WE NEED ILLUMINATION.
THERE ARE THINGS THAT VISION
ZERO PROVES WORKS ILLUMINATION
CRASH SITE IMPROVEMENTS WHEN WE
HAVE A CRASH WE NEED TO GO OUT
THERE AND LOOK AT IT.
THAT'S WHAT HOBOKEN DOES WITH
NO DEATHS FOR SEVEN YEARS.
DO WE DO THAT?
DO WE EVEN MENTION IT?
WE HAD A SERIOUS INJURY CRASH
ON NORTH UNIVERSITY.
NO ONE MENTIONED IT.
WE HAD ANOTHER ONE JUST
LAST
WEEK HERE ON AT DIVISION.
NO ONE MENTIONED IT.
WE NEED TO BE LOOKING AT EVERY
ONE OF THOSE AND WE NEED TO
LOOK AT SIGHT LINE OBSTRUCTION.
WE DON'T DO THAT.
OUR EXISTING STRATEGY IS
SPENDING TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS ON CONSULTANTS AND
PLANNERS ON EVERY ONE EXCEPT
ENGINEER'S VISION ZERO, I WOULD
LIKE TO REMIND YOU HAS SIX CORE
COMPONENTS IN COURAGE EDUCATE,
ENGINEER, ENFORCE AVAIL YOU
WEIGHT AND EQUITY.
NOWHERE IN THERE IS PLANNING,
NOWHERE IN THERE IS CONSULTED.
YOU MIGHT NEED A PLANNER.
YOU MIGHT NEED CONSULTANTS TO
ACHIEVE SOME OF THIS BUT YOU
DON'T DRIVE WITH CONSULTANTS
REGARDING THE TWO WAY CYCLE
TRACK AND MILLER ROAD THERE ARE
90 CONFLICT POINTS I'VE
MENTIONED BEFORE.
NOWHERE IN THE WORLD DO WE HAVE
A TWO WAY CYCLE TRACK WITH 90
CONFLICT POINTS.
THE ONLY WAY WE CAN IMPROVE AT
NIENABER IS WE IGNORE LINE
OBSTRUCTION IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ARE SO SMART WE CAN SEE
RIGHT AROUND OBJECT I GUESS SO
UNLESS WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
ANOTHER REVIEW AS I'VE
REQUESTED THE TWO WAY CYCLE
TRACK WE'RE GOING TO END UP
SPENDING A LOT MORE MONEY WHEN
IT HAS TO BE IMPROVED.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF STADIUM IS
THE RIGHT ANSWER THE PROJECT
BUT LET'S GET A TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEER IN HERE AND LET'S
EVALUATE IT AND IF IT'S GOING
TO SAVE LIVES THEN LET'S
LISTEN.
>> LET'S DO IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
COUNCIL.
GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
I WAS HERE LAST YEAR IN SUPPORT
OF RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING.
MY NAME IS JOHN WALKER.
I'M CURRENTLY COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AND SPECIALIST FOR
RIGHT AWAY SLASH PIER NAVIGATOR
AND I'M SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF A
BETTER WAY TO PROMOTE THE
REAUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING FOR
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING COUNCIL
MEMBERS HOUSING IS NOT A BASIC
NEED.
IT IS PUBLIC SAFETY STRATEGY
WITHOUT STABLE HOUSING JUST AS
IMPACTED AND RETURNING CITIZENS
FACE OVER BARRIERS AND ARE MORE
LIKELY TO REOFFEND.
BUT THE RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
AND IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
PARTNERSHIPS WE PROVIDE A
FOUNDATION FOR TRANSFORMATION
PROOF POSITIVE OF THAT
TRANSFORMATION.
>> SINCE LAUNCHING THIS
COLLABORATION WE'VE SEEN
PARTICIPANTS STABILIZE,
RECONNECT WITH FAMILIES AND
BUILD FORWARD LIVING LIVES THAT
SAFER STREETS, FEWER POLICE
CARS AND REDUCTION IN STRESS ON
OUR COURTS AND JAILS.
THIS PROGRAM DOES NOT STOP AT
HOUSING.
IT'S ABOUT BUILDING
SELF-SUFFICIENCY AGAIN I'M
PROOF POSITIVE WITH A SECURE
PLACE TO LIVE AND DIRECT
SERVICE SUPPORT INDIVIDUALS CAN
FINALLY FOCUS ON GETTING JOBS
AND ROLLING PROGRAM SOME RE
ENTERING COLLEGE AND
PARTICIPATE FULLY IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THEY COME TAXPAYERS MENTORS AND
LEADERS BY FUNDING THIS
PARTNERSHIP YOU ARE NOT JUST
LIFTING INDIVIDUALS, YOU ARE
STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITY AND
IT KIND OF EVERY DOLLAR
INVESTED IN A RISING HOPE SAVES
FAR MORE IN EMERGENCY SERVICES
INCARCERATION AND SHELTER
EXPENSES.
THIS IS A SMART, COMPASSIONATE
USE OF THE CITY'S RESOURCES.
IT REDUCES LONG TERM COSTS AND
HELPS REBUILD LIVES.
YOUR COMMITMENT, YOUR CONTINUED
SUPPORT IN ENCOURAGES ENSURES
THE GENERAL THE WAY AND
PRACTICAL EVIDENCE BASED
SOLUTIONS FOR HOUSING JUSTICE
TODAY I'M NOT ASKING JUST FOR
FUNDING.
I'M ASKING YOU TO EXERCISE YOUR
VISION.
YOU'VE SUPPORTED THIS TO
PREVIOUS YEARS.
I'M ASKING YOU TO DO IT AGAIN
FOR THE THIRD TIME RISING HOPE
FOR HOUSING IN A BRIGHTER WAY
AND OUR GREAT PARTNERS ARE
PROVIDING HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
CHAIRMAN HALEY
IPSI TOWNSHIP.
I'M ALL FOR MAKING THE STREETS
SAFE FOR BIKES BUT I'M JUST
ASKING AS YOU GUYS DO THAT KEEP
IN MIND IS HUMAN BEHAVIOR
BECAUSE YOU KNOW IF YOU CAN'T
STOP SOMEBODY DRIVING BY AND
AHEAD COMING OUT OF THE CAR
WITH THE ARM IN A FULL WATER
BOTTLE TO THROW IT AT YOU WHICH
SOMEBODY DID TO ME, YOU CAN DO
WHATEVER YOU WANT TO MAKE THE
STREETS SAFE BUT YOU CAN'T STOP
THAT.
AND AS YOU DO THINGS KEEP THAT
IN MIND BECAUSE LUCKILY IT
DIDN'T IT DIDN'T HIT ME.
IT HIT THE FRONT WHEEL.
WE DIDN'T GO ON BETWEEN AND IT
CAUSED ME TO FIGHT FOR POWER.
>> THIS IS WHEN I LIVED IN
DEXTER JUST OUTSIDE AND BACK
FROM RIGHT OUTSIDE OF NEW
HOUSING PROJECT THEY PUT THERE.
SO YOU CAN MAKE THINGS BETTER
ASK FOR MORE EDUCATION, PUT
DRIVER EDUCATION BACK IN THE
SCHOOLS AND ACTUALLY TEACH
PEOPLE THE RIGHT THING TO DO
VERSUS EXPECT THEM BY BUILDING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EXPECTING
THEM TO ACTUALLY KNOW WHAT IT
DOES OR WHAT IT MEANS UNLESS
THEY KNOW WHAT IT MEANS AND
WHAT IT DOES THAT IS NO GOOD
AND WITH ALL THE TECHNOLOGY
THAT PEOPLE HAVE AND PHONES AND
ALL THAT STUPID, HOW DO YOU GO
AGAINST THAT?
I MEAN A LOT THE SCREENS I
SPECIFICALLY BOUGHT A CAR FROM
PEOPLE THAT DIDN'T HAVE ONE
OF THINGS BECAUSE SO ANNOYING
AT NIGHT YOU GET A BRIGHT LIGHT
.
I'VE LEARNED THEY TEACH AND
DRIVING SCHOOL NOT HAVE A
BRIGHT LIGHT BUT YET THEY PUT A
SCREEN RIGHT THERE IN FRONT
OF YOU NOW IT'S LIKE MAKES NO
SENSE BUT JUST KEEP THE HUMAN
HUMAN COMPONENT INVOLVED IN
THIS AND BEHAVIOR BECAUSE
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT CAN AND
ALWAYS WILL BE UNEXPECTED AND
IS IF YOU EVER DID ANY
EXPERIMENTS IN SCIENCE AND
WRITING UP LAB REPORTS I ALWAYS
WROTE THE TEACHER WOULD ALWAYS
MARK YOU DOWN IF YOU DIDN'T
MARK DOWN THAT THERE ALWAYS
COULD HAVE BEEN HUMAN ERROR IN
YOUR EXPERIMENT BECAUSE YOU'RE
A HUMAN AND YOU'RE DOING IT AND
THERE'S ALWAYS COULD BE ERROR.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
>> YOU HEAR ME?
I'M SCARED TO TOUCH IT.
OK, I'M AMANDA CARLISLE, A
RESIDENT OF WARD FOUR AND I
ALSO SERVE AS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE WESTERN HOUSING
ALLIANCE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONTINUED
SUPPORT PROGRAMING AND FUNDING
FOR PEOPLE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS AND HOUSING
INSECURITY.
ON FRIDAY PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP RELEASED A SKINNY BUDGET
REQUEST SIGNALING THE FEDERAL
ADMINISTRATION'S GOAL TO CUT
MANY CRITICAL HUD PROGRAMS AND
MAKE CHANGES TO HOW FEDERAL
FUNDS WILL BE ALLOCATED.
ALSO ON FRIDAY I RECEIVED A
CALL FROM SOMEONE WHO WAS JUST
RELEASED FROM THE COUNTY JAIL
ON WEDNESDAY THEY HAD HOUSING
BEFORE THEIR JAIL STAY AND HAVE
SINCE BEEN RELEASED BACK TO
THEIR HOUSING.
BUT WHILE THEY WERE IN JAIL
THEY HAD STILL HAD BILLS TO
UPON RELEASE.
>> THIS PERSON NOW HAS AN
UNPAID UTILITY BILL AMOUNTING
TO OVER FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS
AND THEY MADE NO INCOME WHILE
IN JAIL THROUGH THE RISING HOPE
PROGRAM WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
HELP THIS PERSON AVOID EVICTION
BY BRINGING THEM UP TO SPEED ON
THEIR UTILITY BILL AND
PROVIDING CASE MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT IS NEEDED TO ASSIST
THEM WITH FURTHER HOUSING
STABILITY.
IT IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND
ALSO MUCH MORE COST EFFECTIVE
THAN THE ALTERNATIVE OF THAT
PERSON ENDING UP IN EVICTION
AND ON OUR STREETS WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT THE END RESULT WILL
BE OF THE FBI.
TWENTY SIX FEDERAL BUDGET BUT
IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD AND WE
CANNOT RELY ON THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO SUPPORT THOSE WHO
ARE MOST VULNERABLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY HOUSING, FOOD AND
HOUSEHOLD GOODS ARE ALREADY TOO
HIGH FOR OUR LOWEST INCOME
NEIGHBORS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PREVIOUS
SUPPORT OF THE RISING HOPE
PROGRAM AND OTHER TARGETED
ALLOCATIONS THAT HELP PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS AND
HOUSING INSECURITY.
PLEASE FULLY FUND THIS PROGRAM
TO THE GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE
IN THIS YEAR'S BUDGET SO THAT
WE CAN BUILD UPON THE
INNOVATIVE AND COLLABORATIVE
APPROACH OF THE RISING HOPE
PROGRAM THAT HELPS IMPROVE
PEOPLE'S LIVES IN OUR COMMUNITY
.
LASTLY, I LIVE NEAR STADIUM
BOULEVARD AND ALSO SUPPORT THE
STADIUM REDESIGN PILOT FOR
BETTER SAFETY FOR EVERYONE.
I ALSO SIGNED THE PETITION
MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO I'M JIMMY PATTERSON,
PRESIDENT OF THE FIFTH WARD.
I WANT TO SPEAK TO THE BUDGET
ITEM ABOUT THE ROAD DIET THE I
THINK I WANT TO READ I
WE NEED
TO STUDY SAFETY MISHAPS AND
STUDY WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE FOR
INCREASED SAFETY, BUT I WANT TO
REMIND THE COUNCIL THAT
TRANSPORTATION BY VEHICLE IS
VERY IMPORTANT TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO COMMERCE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO CITY
RESIDENTS.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO OUR STATUS AS
A QUASI TOURIST TOWN WHERE WE
BRING LOTS, MANY TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN ON A
WEEKEND AND THEN THEY LEAVE,
YOU KNOW, IN THE SPACE OF A FEW
HOURS FOR ATHLETIC EVENTS
.
WE NEED TO HAVE SOME ROADS THAT
ARE MULTI LANE.
ALLOW A LOT OF PEOPLE TO MOVE
WE NEED TO HAVE SOME ROADS THAT
QUICKLY AND ALSO I DO IN MY
ALLOW A LOT OF PEOPLE TO MOVE
TRAVELS THROUGHOUT THE CITY I
QUICKLY AND ALSO I DO IN MY
SEE REGULAR EXAMPLES OF HOW
TRAVELS THROUGHOUT THE CITY I
PEOPLE'S BEHAVIOR THAT IS NOT
SEE REGULAR EXAMPLES OF HOW
GOING TO COMPORT WELL, THAT'S
PEOPLE'S BEHAVIOR THAT IS NOT
NOT GOING TO BE WILLING TO
GOING TO COMPORT WELL, THAT'S
ACCEPT ALL OF OUR ROADS GOING
NOT GOING TO BE WILLING TO
DOWN TO ONE LANE AND TRAFFIC
ACCEPT ALL OF OUR ROADS GOING
BEING MORE CONGESTED.
DOWN TO ONE LANE AND TRAFFIC
THEY JUST THEY'RE NOT PAYING
BEING MORE CONGESTED.
ATTENTION TO WHAT'S GOING ON.
THEY JUST THEY'RE NOT PAYING
THERE'S AN ACTIVIST COMMUNITY
ATTENTION TO WHAT'S GOING ON.
THAT'S VERY PAYING THAT'S
THERE'S AN ACTIVIST COMMUNITY
PAYING ATTENTION AND LOBBYING
THAT'S VERY PAYING THAT'S
AND EYE CONTACT WITH PEOPLE
PAYING ATTENTION AND LOBBYING
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
AND EYE CONTACT WITH PEOPLE
MOST PEOPLE THINK WE'VE
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
OVERDONE IT WITH BIKE LANES AND
MOST PEOPLE THINK WE'VE
WE NEED TO PAUSE.
OVERDONE IT WITH BIKE LANES AND
THANK YOU.
WE NEED TO PAUSE.
THANK.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
THANK.
HOUSE THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
AT THIS PUBLIC?
HOUSE THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
>> IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WHO
AT THIS PUBLIC?
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
>> IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WHO
PUBLIC HEARING PEOPLE ONLINE?
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
ADAM SAVAGE, DO YOU HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING PEOPLE ONLINE?
COMMENT?
ADAM SAVAGE, DO YOU HAVE A
>> HELLO, THIS IS ADAM
COMMENT?
JUSZKIEWICZ CALLING FROM THE
>> HELLO, THIS IS ADAM
FOURTH WARD.
JUSZKIEWICZ CALLING FROM THE
RECENTLY CITY COUNCIL PASSED A
FOURTH WARD.
RESOLUTION RECOMMITTING TO OUR
RECENTLY CITY COUNCIL PASSED A
GOALS OF ACHIEVING VISION ZERO
RESOLUTION RECOMMITTING TO OUR
BY THIS YEAR AND TO CUTTING
GOALS OF ACHIEVING VISION ZERO
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED IN HALF
BY THIS YEAR AND TO CUTTING
TONIGHT YOU'RE HEARING FROM THE
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED IN HALF
PUBLIC ABOUT HOW WE WOULD LIKE
TONIGHT YOU'RE HEARING FROM THE
TO SPEND OUR MONEY UNLIKE A
PUBLIC ABOUT HOW WE WOULD LIKE
CERTAIN FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER.
TO SPEND OUR MONEY UNLIKE A
I'M GLAD WE HAVE PROJECTS IN
CERTAIN FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER.
PROGRESS SIMILAR TO A CYCLE
I'M GLAD WE HAVE PROJECTS IN
TRACK WHICH WILL DRAMATICALLY
PROGRESS SIMILAR TO A CYCLE
IMPROVE SAFETY FOR PEOPLE
TRACK WHICH WILL DRAMATICALLY
RIDING THEIR BIKES TO AND FROM
IMPROVE SAFETY FOR PEOPLE
DOWNTOWN ALONG MILLER IT'S
RIDING THEIR BIKES TO AND FROM
GREAT THAT WE FIX STUFF WHEN WE
DOWNTOWN ALONG MILLER IT'S
NEED TO RESURFACE STREETS.
GREAT THAT WE FIX STUFF WHEN WE
HOWEVER, I AGREE WITH OTHER
NEED TO RESURFACE STREETS.
SPEAKERS THAT WE NEED A BIGGER
HOWEVER, I AGREE WITH OTHER
FOCUS ON OUR MOST DANGEROUS
SPEAKERS THAT WE NEED A BIGGER
CORRIDORS AS A SIGN OF THE
FOCUS ON OUR MOST DANGEROUS
SAFETY FOR STADIUM NOW PETITION
CORRIDORS AS A SIGN OF THE
I URGE YOU TO APPROPRIATE FUNDS
SAFETY FOR STADIUM NOW PETITION
UNDER THIS BUDGET TO
I URGE YOU TO APPROPRIATE FUNDS
RECONFIGURE OR DIE AT ALL
UNDER THIS BUDGET TO
REMAINING MULTILINE SEGMENTS
RECONFIGURE OR DIE AT ALL
OF THE STADIUM AND MAPLE
REMAINING MULTILINE SEGMENTS
CORRIDOR FOR A TWO YEAR PILOT
OF THE STADIUM AND MAPLE
THIS CONVERSION MUST INCLUDE
CORRIDOR FOR A TWO YEAR PILOT
PROTECTED BICYCLE FACILITIES
THIS CONVERSION MUST INCLUDE
AND SPEED MANAGEMENT DEVICES TO
PROTECTED BICYCLE FACILITIES
ENSURE THAT DRIVERS DO NOT
AND SPEED MANAGEMENT DEVICES TO
ENDANGER PEDESTRIANS, CYCLISTS
ENSURE THAT DRIVERS DO NOT
OR OTHER DRIVERS.
ENDANGER PEDESTRIANS, CYCLISTS
THE IDEA THAT WE ARE THAT WE'RE
OR OTHER DRIVERS.
DOING OVERKILL WITH BIKE LANES
THE IDEA THAT WE ARE THAT WE'RE
IT'S JUST ABSURD THAT WE DON'T
DOING OVERKILL WITH BIKE LANES
HAVE NEARLY ENOUGH.
IT'S JUST ABSURD THAT WE DON'T
I LIVE NEAR THE ONLY SEGMENT
HAVE NEARLY ENOUGH.
OF THE STADIUM CORRIDOR THAT
I LIVE NEAR THE ONLY SEGMENT
HAS BEEN DILUTED THE SEGMENT
OF THE STADIUM CORRIDOR THAT
BETWEEN JUST SOUTH OF POLLIN TO
HAS BEEN DILUTED THE SEGMENT
7TH AND IT'S FAR AND AWAY THE
BETWEEN JUST SOUTH OF POLLIN TO
CALMEST, QUIETEST PART OF THE
7TH AND IT'S FAR AND AWAY THE
CORRIDOR AND CONSEQUENTLY THE
CALMEST, QUIETEST PART OF THE
BEST TO BIKE OR WALK ALONG OR
CORRIDOR AND CONSEQUENTLY THE
CROSS GETTING IN AND OUT OF MY
BEST TO BIKE OR WALK ALONG OR
NEIGHBORHOOD ON A BIKE OR IN A
CROSS GETTING IN AND OUT OF MY
CAR IS FAR BETTER THAN BEFORE.
NEIGHBORHOOD ON A BIKE OR IN A
THE TRAFFIC FLOWS JUST FINE.
CAR IS FAR BETTER THAN BEFORE.
THIS HAS BEEN THE CASE ACROSS
THE TRAFFIC FLOWS JUST FINE.
THE CITY WHEN WE'VE DONE
THIS HAS BEEN THE CASE ACROSS
SIMILAR RECONFIGURATIONS WE
THE CITY WHEN WE'VE DONE
KNOW ROAD DIETS WORK, THEY MAKE
SIMILAR RECONFIGURATIONS WE
STREETS SAFER.
KNOW ROAD DIETS WORK, THEY MAKE
THEY IMPROVE THE EXPERIENCE FOR
STREETS SAFER.
ALL ROAD USERS.
THEY IMPROVE THE EXPERIENCE FOR
WE NEED TO DESIGN OUR STREETS
ALL ROAD USERS.
TO PRIORITIZE SAFETY AND WE
WE NEED TO DESIGN OUR STREETS
NEED TO FOCUS ON TRANSPORTATION
TO PRIORITIZE SAFETY AND WE
IN TERMS OF PEOPLE THAT CARS
NEED TO FOCUS ON TRANSPORTATION
WITHOUT FEDERAL FUNDS FROM
IN TERMS OF PEOPLE THAT CARS
PROGRAMS SUCH AS SAFE STREETS
WITHOUT FEDERAL FUNDS FROM
FOR WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO STEP
PROGRAMS SUCH AS SAFE STREETS
UP AND USE OUR OWN MONEY TO
FOR WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO STEP
FUND THESE KINDS OF BUILD
UP AND USE OUR OWN MONEY TO
PROJECTS.
FUND THESE KINDS OF BUILD
YOU SPECIFICALLY SET ASIDE
PROJECTS.
MONEY TO FILL IN FUNDING GAPS
YOU SPECIFICALLY SET ASIDE
TO ESSENTIAL PROGRAMS CAUSED BY
MONEY TO FILL IN FUNDING GAPS
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND
TO ESSENTIAL PROGRAMS CAUSED BY
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF SUCH A
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND
NEED.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF SUCH A
LET'S PUT OUR MONEY WHERE OUR
NEED.
MOUTH IS.
LET'S PUT OUR MONEY WHERE OUR
PLEASE FUND VISION, BUILD
MOUTH IS.
PROJECTS IN GENERAL AND PLEASE
PLEASE FUND VISION, BUILD
FUND A RECONFIGURATION PILOT
PROJECTS IN GENERAL AND PLEASE
AND THE STADIUM CORRIDOR IN
FUND A RECONFIGURATION PILOT
THIS YEAR'S BUDGET.
AND THE STADIUM CORRIDOR IN
>> THANK YOU.
THIS YEAR'S BUDGET.
THANK YOU
.
>> HAVE AN ADVANTAGE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ERIC IVANCICH AND
I'M CALLING FROM THE THIRD
WARD.
I WANT TO ADD MY SUPPORT TO
INCLUDING FUNDING IN THIS
BUDGET TO EXTEND THE STADIUM
ROAD DIET FROM ALDY ALL THE WAY
TO TRADER JOE'S.
THIS STRETCH PASSES BY SEVERAL
SCHOOLS MAKING SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS EVEN MORE
IMPORTANT AT THIS POINT WE
DON'T NEED MORE STUDIES.
WE NEED ACTION.
MOST DRIVERS ARE CAREFUL BUT
ONE LANE ROADS ENCOURAGE A FEW
TO SPEED WEAVE THROUGH TRAFFIC
AND FOCUS MORE ON MANEUVERING
AROUND OTHER CARS AND IN THE
SAFETY OF PEDESTRIANS AND
CYCLISTS.
MANY HAVE WONDERED WHY THE CITY
HASN'T MADE USE OF HARDENED
BOLLARDS AND AND THERE HAVE
BEEN MURMURS THAT THE STATE
DOESN'T EVEN ALLOW THEM ON OUR
STREETS.
BUT RECENTLY OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MR. DE HONY
REQUESTED FUNDING FOR
RETRACTABLE BOLLARDS TO PROTECT
DOWNTOWN STREETS THAT WE OFTEN
CLOSE FOR PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED
EVENTS.
>> GIVEN THAT I URGE THE CITY
TO IN ADDITION TO THE ROAD
DIETZE ON STADIUM AT PROTECTED
BIKE LANES AND FULLY CONSIDER
USING HARDENED BOLLARDS AS A
PROTECTIVE BARRIER.
RESEARCH HAS SHOWN THAT
PROTECTED BIKE LANES DON'T JUST
MAKE CYCLING SAFER THEY MAKE
MOTORISTS SAFER AS WELL.
PLEASE COMMIT TO TAKING THIS
KEY STEP TOWARDS A VISION ZERO
GOAL AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK
ALEX LOWE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT EVENING.
THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN FROM
WARD THREE RELLY SIMPLE
QUESTION ABOUT PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY IN GENERAL AND THE LACK
OF FUNDING FOR ROAD A STADIUM
IN PARTICULAR.
>> HOW MANY MORE PEOPLE HAVE TO
DIE?
>> WE HAVE SEEN PEOPLE DYING
BECAUSE OF OUR UNSAFE STREETS
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS
DYING IN BROAD DAYLIGHT WITH
CLEAR SIGHT SIGHTLINES.
>> THIS IS THAT WHILE THERE IS
SOMETHING TO BE SAID ABOUT
MAKING SURE THAT THERE IS
VISIBILITY AT NIGHT, THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THE ISSUE IS DURING
THE DAY.
WE ARE WITH CHRIS CYCLONES IN
PLACES WHERE WE SIMPLY WE
SIMPLY PRIORITIZE PEOPLE'S
CONVENIENCE DRIVING OVER THE
SAFETY OF ANYONE WHO IS NOT
INSIDE A CAR.
>> WE'VE HAD PEOPLE KILLED ON
MOTORCYCLES, ON ON BICYCLES
CROSSING THE STREET OR DURING
THE DAY AND EVERY SINGLE ONE
WHAT ONE OF THOSE IS AT LEAST
IN PART THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE CITY.
AND IF YOU'RE NOT GOING TO FUND
THAT THESE SORTS OF DIETS AND
OTHER SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS THEN
BECOMES YOUR PARTLY YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY.
I DON'T KNOW THAT I COULD BE
THAT I COULD BE WILLING TO LIVE
WITH KNOWING THAT I KILLED
SOMEONE THAT MAYBE YOU ARE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR PRO TEM.
I BELIEVE THOSE ARE ALL THE
COLORS WE HAVE ON LINE WITH
ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING SEEING NO
ONE.
>> THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSE.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE WORK
SESSION MINUTES OF MARCH 11TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IN THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH 18TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MOVES BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
UH ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OPPOSE THEY ARE APPROVED BY ONE
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
NINETY THREE ALARM SYSTEMS
OF TITLE SEVEN OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY BANABA MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR, ANY OPPOSE IT?
IT IS APPROVED TO AN ORDINANCE
TO AMEND SECTION TWO SIXTY
THREE OF CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
WATER RATES OF TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL.
>> ANY DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR ANY OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
B THREE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION TWO SIXTY NINE
OF CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
STORMWATER RATES OF TITLE TWO
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY IN
HARBOR MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK.
>> ANY DISCUSSION, ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR ANY OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
BEFORE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION TWO SIXTY FOUR
OF CHAPTER TWENTY NINE SEWER
RATES OF TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY REMEMBER MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
IN YOUR POS IT IS APPROVED C
ONE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REZONING
OF THREE ACRES FROM TWP
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO PUBLIC AND
DISTRICT AND OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
PROPERTY THIRTY EIGHT OH ONE
SCHOOL ROAD MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED C TO AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF TWO POINT SIXTY
FIVE ACRES FROM TWP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO PUBLIC LAND
DISTRICT TWENTY EIGHT SIXTY TWO
STONE SCHOOL ROAD MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED C THREE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING REZONING
OF NINE POINT EIGHT FIVE NINE
ACRES FROM R FOR A MULTIFAMILY
DWELLING
DISTRICT TO PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT PYKRETE NATURE
AREA EXPANSION REZONING TWENTY
THREE TWENTY FIVE CRISTOL WAY
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNETTO.
ANY DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
>> I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT
THIS IS A NINE POINT EIGHT ACRE
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING NATURE
AREA WHICH WAS CREATED IN 2008
WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF NORTH
CONDOS AND PONTIAC DRIVE.
THIS ADDITIONAL ACREAGE IS A
CONTRIBUTION FROM A SECOND
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT NOW KNOWN
AS UNIVERSITY RALES WHICH WAS
APPROVED IN 2019 AND THIS AREA
WILL REMAIN AS A MAJOR AREA.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED C FOR AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING REZO OF ONE
POINT TWO ONE ACRES FROM PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT D ONE DOWNTOWN
CORE DISTRICT DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
REZONING THREE FORTY THREE S A
FIFTY FIFTH AVENUE MOVED BY
COUNCIL MODISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY SO NO
ONE IS CONFUSED.
SO THIS SITE CURRENTLY INCLUDES
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
BUILDING AND ADJACENT SERVICE
PARKING LOT.
IT DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO
WITH THE CENTER OF THE CITY IN
TWENTY NINETEEN THE LIBRARY
BOARD COMMISSIONED A
FEASIBILITY STUDY TO
INVESTIGATE POTENTIAL
REDEVELOPMENT SCENARIOS FOR A
NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY THAT WOULD
HAVE RETAIL AND HOUSING AND
OFFICES AND WHO KNOWS WHAT MORE
BUT EVERYTHING INTERESTING AND
MODERN AND THAT REPORT
CONCLUDED THAT IT IS
FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE TO
REDEVELOP THE SITE BUT THAT
DOING SO WOULD REQUIRE REZONING
AND SO NOTING THAT CHICAGO AND
BOSTON HAVE ALREADY PUT HOUSING
ON TOP OF OR ALONGSIDE THEIR
LIBRARIES, I WILL ALSO SAY THAT
IF THIS VISION IS REALIZED, ANN
ARBOR WOULD BE THE FIRST CITY
TO LOCATE HOUSING ON THE MAIN
DOWNTOWN BRANCH OF ITS LIBRARY
.
>> SO BY APPROVING THIS
REZONING, IF WE ALL VOTE TO DO
THAT COUNCIL TAKES THE FIRST
STEP TOWARDS THIS AMBITIOUS
GOAL.
THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR END OF YOUR POST
IT IS APPROVED C FIVE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION
OF FIVE THIRTY OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
PD MODIFICATIONS MOVED BY
COUNCILMAN REDISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK.
ANY DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
ON THE VERY SMALL JUST TO LET
YOU KNOW THAT CURRENTLY THE
CITY REQUIRES THAT A PD CANNOT
BE MODIFIED UNLESS ALL OWNERS
WITH A PROPERTY INTEREST EITHER
PARTICIPATE IN THE MODIFICATION
OR APPROVE IT.
AND WHILE IT IS ENTIRELY
APPROPRIATE THAT YOU NEED
UNANIMOUS APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH
THE PD, WE WOULDN'T WANT TO
FORCE THAT ON UNSUSPECTING
INDIVIDUALS IT DOES NOT MAKE
SENSE AT ALL TO RAISE SUCH YOU
POST SUCH AN OBLIGATION ON
REQUEST TO AFFECT ONE PORTION
OF A PUDI ONE OWNER'S PORTION
OF THE PD BECAUSE THIS
VIRTUALLY PREVENTS A PD FROM
EVOLVING OVER TIME AND
BASICALLY GIVES NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY OWNERS VETO POWER OVER
THE ABILITY OF OTHERS TO PURSUE
MODIFICATIONS OF THE EXISTING
ZONING FRAMEWORK.
THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
EXAMPLES OVER RECENT YEARS PUDI
ZONING DISTRICTS BEING
RESTRICTED FROM EVOLUTION UNDER
OUR CURRENT FRAMEWORK.
SO THIS CHANGE INITIATED BY
STAFF WOULD PROPOSE THAT ANY
LANDOWNER OR CONDOMINIUM OWNERS
ASSOCIATION WOULD HAVE THE
ABILITY TO SEEK A MODIFICATION
AS IT RELATES TO THEIR PARCEL
ONLY THE CITY WOULD RETAIN THE
LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY TO ACT
UPON ANY SUCH REQUEST.
SO WE THOUGHT THAT SOMEONE WAS
ASKING TO DO SOMETHING THAT WE
FELT WAS OUT OF STEP OR
WHATEVER IT WAS.
I MEAN I GUESS WE MIGHT NEED
LEGAL ADVICE ON HOW FAR OUR
DISCRETION EXTENDED BUT THERE
IS SO THERE IS SOME OVERSIGHT
OF THIS.
BUT THIS THIS IS A VERY
SENSIBLE, REALLY SMALL
ADJUSTMENT.
SO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED IT AND I
BELIEVE YES, ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THOSE IN FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED C SIX AN
ORDINANCE TO ADD SECTIONS EIGHT
FIVE THREE THREE THROUGH EIGHT
FIVE FOUR ZERO TO CHAPTERS ONE
CHAPTER ONE OF FIVE HOUSING
CODE OF TITLE EIGHT BUILDING
REGULATIONS OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR GREEN RENTAL
HOUSING MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL.
GIVEN THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON HAS SUBMITTED SEVERAL
QUESTIONS ON THIS AGENDA ITEM
AS WELL AS A SERIES
OF POTENTIAL AMENDMENTS BUT IS
UNFORTUNATELY ABLE TO UNABLE TO
BE HERE THIS EVENING TRAGIC
FAMILY CIRCUMSTANCES I WOULD
REQUEST A MOTION TO POSTPONE
THIS ITEM TO OUR FIRST MEETING
IN JUNE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE THE
POSTPONEMENT IS APPROVED DC ONE
A RESOLUTION TO APPOINT MEMBERS
TO THE INTERIOR BUILDING
AUTHORITY BOARD MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED CITY
ATTORNEY COURT DO WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
THIS EVENING?
>> THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
CLERK'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH OF ANY
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
IN A POST IT IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE ANY FURTHER
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY TODAY A SQUARE ROOT
OF FIVE FIVE TWENTY FIVE BUT
OTHER THAN THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW HAVE ARRIVED AT OUR
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW PERIOD
WHICH PROVIDES THE OPPORTUNITY
REMAINING SPEAKERS FROM EARLIER
IN THE MEETING TO CONTINUE TO
ADDRESS COUNCIL.
THE NEXT SPEAKER ON OUR LIST.
OH, THANK YOU, STEPHEN.
STEFAN TRED ENOUGH
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU
AGAIN.
LET'S IMAGINE FOR A SECOND THE
JONES IN MR. JONES GRADUATED
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY RENT A TWO BEDROOM.
THEY HAVE A FIVE YEAR OLD AND A
TWO YEAR OLD.
MR. IS WORKING WELL.
MRS IS HAVING A REALLY HARD
DAY.
SHE TAKES THE KIDS ON A
STROLLER AND SHE WALKS DOWN TO
THE PARK IN A CENTER OF THE
CITY SO SHE WILL BE WALKING BY
THE TREES AND GETTING SOME
FRESH AIR TO GET AWAY FROM THE
CHAOS.
THEY'RE BOTH TRYING TO WORK TO
SAVE SOME MONEY TO BUY A HOUSE
WHICH IS VERY EXPENSIVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> I'M PERSONALLY IN FAVOR
OF DEVELOPMENT.
>> WE HAVE AN ABUNDANCE
OF PARKS THAT WE HAVE TO
MAINTAIN.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US
TO THIN OUT ON THE PARKS AND
CREATE SOME HOUSING.
I PRO HOUSING AND PRO
DEVELOPMENT I DON'T UNDERSTAND
WE ARE SPENDING A MILLION
DOLLARS TO REINFORCE THE BASE
OF THE CONCRETE OF THE LIBRARY
LOT.
WHAT MAKES YOU BELIEVE THAT WE
CANNOT SUSTAIN GREEN A GREEN
ENVIRONMENT?
SO I'M ADVOCATING FOR THE CITY
FIRST OF ALL, MR. JONES IS NOT
GOING TO GO TO THE DIAG AND
HAVE FOOTBALL THROWN AROUND AND
SUPPORT PEOPLE WANT A GREEN
SPACE.
THEY NEED A GREEN SPACE AND
WALK RIGHT THROUGH AND WATCH
YOUR CHILDREN PLAY BY THE
WATER.
IT IS NOT AN UNREASONABLE THING
.
IT'S BEING DONE ALL OVER THE
WORLD.
I DON'T KNOW HOW KINDLE LIBRARY
WHO NEEDS MONEY CHASTAIN PARK.
>> I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE LOGIC
HERE GET THE MONEY AND THEY'RE
GOING TO MAINTAIN A PARK.
HOW'S THAT GOING TO HAPPEN?
SO WE'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR A
LONG TIME AND WE WILL ENHANCE
THE CITY A GREAT DEAL TO HAVE
GREEN SPACE.
>> IT WOULD ENHANCE THE CITY.
WHAT CAN I SAY?
IT'S UP TO YOU GUYS YOU WANT TO
BE REMEMBERED THE PEOPLE THAT
JUST FILLED ALL THE SPACES DO
YOU WANT TO BE REMEMBERED THAT
WE HAVE AMPLE SPACE IN THE
OUTSKIRTS NOT CAPPATO SPACE.
OH, THESE BEAUTIFUL STUDENTS
THAT ARE RICH HAVE TO COME
DOWNSTAIRS AND GRAB A COPY
OF AND GO OUT ACROSS THE STREET
TO TO DO TO THE LECTURES
RIDICULOUS.
SO THIS AND THE UNIVERSITY HAD
A RESPONSIBILITY TO PROVIDE
MORE HELP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE JEREMY HAYLIE
.
>> GOOD EVENING AGAIN CHAIRMAN
HALEY IPSI TOWNSHIP OUR FIRST
HI EXCUSE ME FOR THE WHITE
GLASS MEETING.
I WASN'T REALLY FEELING GOOD SO
I FELT LIKE I WAS KIND
OF WANDERING KIND OF HOW THAT
AFFECTS ME A LITTLE BIT
.
I AM A VOUCHER HOLDER AND HAVE
BEEN FOR SOME TIME AND WHAT I
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT THAT I LIVED
IT LIKE CREEK AND THEY HAD THE
PROGRAM AS A TAX CREDIT PROGRAM
THAT WAS STARTED OUT IN
NINETEEN NINETY SIX FOR THE
PROPERTY WHICH MEANS THEY HAD
MARKET RATE UNITS ON THE SITE
BUT THEY ALSO PROVIDED THE UNIT
FOR LOWER INCOME PEOPLE LIKE
MYSELF ON VOUCHERS THAT THE
STATE GAVE THEM TAX CREDITS FOR
WHICH STILL MEANT THE PROPERTY
STILL GAVE PROPERTY TAXES TO
BACK TO THE COMMUNITY AND WHAT
I SEE IS MORE AND MORE PLACES
YOU'RE BUILDING YOU KNOW, THE
UNITS THEY'RE ALL TAKEN OFF THE
BOOKS SO IT'S LEAVING A HOLE
WHERE A TAX GENERATING PROPERTY
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT COULD BE
THERE ALSO BE FOR MARKET RATE
PLUS IN THE SAME UNIT WHERE THE
PROPERTY OWNER STILL PAYS
PROPERTY TAXES TO HELP CITY AND
CITY IN THE WHOLE SYSTEM BY
TAKING PLACES OUT OF THE MARKET
LIKE THAT YOU'RE MAKING A HOLE
AND PUTTING THAT TAX BURDEN ON
ALL THE OTHER TAXPAYERS IN THE
SYSTEM OTHER AND RAISES THEIR
PROPERTY TAXES BECAUSE NO, THIS
ONE'S NOT AND IT DOES HURT
EVERYBODY AND IT ESPECIALLY
STILL HURTS THE PEOPLE YOU'RE
TRYING TO HELP BECAUSE NOW
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THE HELP
THEY NEED BUT THEY HAVE LESS
TAX MONEY GENERATING TO HELP
THEM SO IT'S NOT HELPING THEM
IF YOU CAN SEE THAT AND I'M ALL
FOR HELPING PEOPLE, YOU JUST I
LIKE TO SEE MORE TAX CREDIT
UNITS WHERE IT HELPS THE TAX
BASE AND THAT TAKES AWAY FROM
IT.
AND THE LAST THING ON THE IRS
ON THE HOUSING COMMISSION
THAT'S GOING TO BE BUILDING TWO
HUNDRED UNITS THERE AND I DON'T
THINK IT'S REALLY EQUITABLE
THAT THEY HAVE THE HEAT PUMP
AND THE OTHER BUILDINGS IN
HOTELS IS GOING TO HAVE RANDOM
GAS UNITS.
IT'S NOT EQUITABLE TO SAY HEY,
YOU'RE LOWER INCOME.
YOU GOT TO DEAL WITH THIS WHILE
THE PEOPLE OVER HERE ARE PAYING
MARKET RATE PLUS CAN GO UP TO
THE GAS FURNACE OR WHATEVER AND
CRANK UP THEIR HEAT WHATEVER
THEY WANT.
IT'S NOT A VERY COOL ISSUE TO
HAVE AND BASICALLY THE WHOLE
SITE SHOULD BE FREE AND DO IT
ALL BE THE SAME GEOTHERMAL OR
HEAT PUMPS AND ALL THE
BUILDINGS AND THANK THANK YOU.
WITH NO FURTHER PUBLIC COMMENT,
DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOVED BY COUNCILMAN REDISH,
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSE.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THAT WAS EVEN